#ITI#Global and Individual Treatment Effects Using Machine Learning Methods#FTI#
#IRE# Identifying students at risk of failing a course has potential benefits, such as recommending the At-Risk students to various interventions that could improve pass rates. The challenges however, are firstly in measuring how effective these interventions are, i.e. measuring treatment effects, and secondly, to not only predict overall (average) treatment effects, but also individual treatment effects. Previous work has used machine learning (ML) to estimate treatment effects by training models on treatment and control groups and using these models to predict counterfactuals. This is called the machine learning for predicting treatment effects, or MLTE method, in this study. This paper extends this previous work by (1) being the first to compare, or validate, the MLTE method, with the traditional propensity score matching (PSM) method; (2) using the MLTE method to compute not only global, but also subgroup and individual (heterogeneous) treatment effects and (3) by developing a method that combines the MLTE method with methods such as SHAP (SH apley A dditive exP lanations), to predict final grades, predict individual treatment effects and characterize individual students. This is a comparative study between control and experimental groups, using observational data from a first year engineering mechanics course. Students could self-select to attend extra weekly tutorials (called the intervention), resulting in treatment and control groups. The aim was to measure the treatment effects of the intervention by comparing the difference in outcomes between treated and control groups. One of the main results was to develop a method for not only predicting final grades for subgroups and individuals, but also predicting treatment effects. This is valuable for predicting how a student/subgroup would perform and whether the intervention would benefit them. It allows for determining which types of students (or subgroups) would benefit from the intervention. This method shows the most promise for catering to individual students by not only predicting individual students’ final grades (mean absolute errors of between 6% and 8% were computed), but also predicting by how much the intervention would benefit the student (individual treatment effect, ITE) and by characterizing these students using SHAP. In terms of the ML models used, tree-based models performed the best in predictions. The method developed in this study therefore promises much for using ML to help individual students pass a course by identifying individuals that will receive the most benefit from the intervention#FRE#
#IPC# Counterfactuals; Machine learning; Personalized learning; Propensity score matching; SHAP; Treatment effects#FPC#
#IRF# Agrawal H., Mavani H., Student performance prediction using machine learning, International Journal of Engineering Research and Technology, 4, pp. 111-113, (2015); 
Athey S., Machine learning and causal inference for policy evaluation, KDD’15 Proceedings of the 21Th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 5-6, (2015); 
Austin P.C., An introduction to propensity score methods for reducing the effects of confounding in observational studies, Multivariate Behavioral Research, 46, 3, pp. 399-424, (2011); 
Beemer J., Spoon K., He L., Et al., Ensemble learning for estimating individualized treatment effects in student success studies, International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, (2017); 
Beemer J., Spoon K., Fan J., Et al., Assessing instructional modalities: Individualized treatment effects for personalized learning, Journal of Statistics Education, (2018); 
Faraoni D., Schaefer S.T., Randomized Controlled Trials Vs Observational Studies: Why Not Just Live Together?, (2016); 
Grimmer J., Messing S., Westwood S.J., Estimating Heterogeneous Treatment Effects and the Effects of Heterogeneous Treatments with Ensemble Methods, Political Analysis, 25, 4, pp. 413-434, (2017); 
Heckman J.J., Smith J.A., The pre-programme earnings dip and the determinants of participation in a social programme. Imprications for simple programme evaluations strategies, The Economic Journal., (1999); 
Hill J.L., Bayesian Nonparametric Modeling for Causal Inference, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 20, 1, pp. 217-240, (2011); 
Ho D.E., Et al., Matching as nonparametric preprocessing for reducing model dependence in parametric causal inference, Political Analysis, 15, pp. 199-236, (2007); 
Hong G., Yu B., Effects of kindergarten retention on children’s socialemotional development: An application of propensity score method to multivariate, multilevel data, Developmental Psychology, 44, 2, pp. 407-421, (2008); 
Kotsiantis S., Pierrakeas C., Pintelas P., Predicting Students’ Performance in Distance Learning Using Machine Learning Techniques, In Applied Artificial Intelligence, (2004); 
Kunzel S.R., Et al., Metalearners for estimating heterogeneous treatment effects using machine learning, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, (2019); 
Linden A., Yarnold P.R., Combining machine learning and matching techniques to improve causal inference in program evaluation, Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice, 22, pp. 864-870, (2016); 
Louppe G., Understanding Random Forests: From Theory to Practice, (2014); 
Lundberg S.M., Lee S.-I., A unified approach to interpreting model predictions, 31St Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2017)., (2017); 
Lunt M., Selecting an appropriate caliper can be essential for achieving good balance with propensity score matching, PLoS One, 179, (2013); 
Molnar C., Interpretable Machine Learning: A Guide for Making Black Box Models Explainable, (2019); 
Morgan S.L., Winship C., Counterfactuals and causal inference, Methods and Principles for Social Research., (2007); 
Rosenbaum P.R., Rubin D.B., The central role of the propensity score in observational studies for causal effects, Biometrika, 70, 1, pp. 41-55, (1983); 
Shahiri A., Mohamed W.H., Rashid N.A., A review on predicting student’s performance using data mining techniques, Procedia Computer Science, 72, pp. 414-422, (2015); 
Sheltonbrett E., Sarah J.-L.H., Online Graduate Teacher Education: Establishing an EKG for Student Success Intervention, Technology, Knowledge and Learning, pp. 21-32, (2016); 
Stuart E.A., Matching methods for causal inference: a review and a look forward, Stat. Sci., 25, 1, pp. 1-21, (2010); 
Wager S., Athey S., Estimation and inference of heterogeneous treatment effects using random forests, Journal of the American Statistical Association, (2017); 
Wang Y., Et al., Optimal caliper width for propensity score matching of three treatment groups: A Monte Carlo study, PLoS One, 12, pp. 325-338, (2013); 
Wyse A.E., Keesler V., Schneider B., Assessing the effects of small school size on mathematics achievement: A propensity score-matching approach, Teachers College Record, (2008); 
Yu Y., Kaskutas L.A., Using propensity scores to adjust for selection bias when assessing the effectiveness of alchoholics anonymous in observational studies, Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 104-2, pp. 56-64, (2009); 
Zhao S., Heffernan N., Estimating Individual Treatment Effect from Educational Studies with Residual Counterfactual Networks, (2017)#FRF#
