#ITI#Transforming a doctoral summer school to an online experience: A response to the COVID-19 pandemic#FTI#
#IRE# For the last 28 years, one of the leading international science education organisations has regularly provided a week-long summer school experience for doctoral students. In summer 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic prevented international travel and close-contact interactions between scholars. This required the transformation and relocation of learning interactions between mentors and doctoral students online through a virtual week-long summer school. All doctoral participants, from across the five continents, were invited to reflectively comment on their educative experience after the online event. This paper consequently presents the perspectives of these science education PhD students who engaged with the transformed virtual summer school to consider how the range of varied online interactions maintained the learning opportunities for them and enabled their introduction to an established research community. The study indicates how the digital activities facilitated and maintained high-quality learning exchanges through a varied array of intellectual activities involving both experienced and novice scholars. The findings demonstrate how successful academic outcomes can be achieved remotely while minimising international travel and significantly reducing financial outlay. This was achieved through creatively structuring a week-long virtual experience and combining a series of synchronous and asynchronous learning opportunities for different groupings of participants within the international summer school community. Practitioner notes What is already known about this topic Doctoral students often feel that studying for their research degree is a very solitary experience. Supporting doctoral students to discuss their research with peers and more experienced others can address the feelings of isolation. The pandemic restricting face-to-face interaction constrains how learning can unfold in online contexts. It is possible to provide doctoral support through online means, however, the exact nature of such is not clearly defined. What this paper adds Clear evidence that doctoral learning communities [involving university students and tutors] can be successfully developed through online virtual environments. That online working can afford and extend doctoral learning, develop beginning researcher identities and provide students the opportunity to become part of an international research community whatever their geographical setting and prior socio-cultural experiences. Clarity about the nature of online activities that ensure an appropriate blend of the kind of synchronous and asynchronous interactions that effectively support virtual online doctoral learning. The Community of Practice COP theoretical framework can offer a useful way of looking at different dimensions of higher degree learning. Implications for practice and/or policy This paper provides advice for those who would like to develop their own virtual learning networks that bring together learners from universities and wider organisations to develop a community of learning. That an appropriate blend of synchronous and asynchronous interactions can mediate and support doctoral students, aiding them to effectively become more knowledgeable members of an international research community within a short space of time. That international virtual events can successfully achieve learning outcomes while also minimising overseas travel, significantly reducing financial expenditure and individual carbon footprints#FRE#
#IPC# community; digital transformation; doctoral education; science education research; summer school education#FPC#
#IRF# Alexander B., Web 2.0: A new wave of innovation for teaching and learning?, Educause Review, 41, pp. 32-44, (2006); 
Alexander S., Boud D., Learners still learn from experience when online, Teaching and learning online, pp. 35-47, (2018); 
Andrew S., Halcomb E., Mixed methods for nursing and health sciences, (2009); 
Braun V., Clarke V., Using thematic analysis in psychology, Qualitative Research in Psychology, 3, 2, pp. 77-101, (2006); 
Bruner J., In search of pedagogy, II, (2006); 
Cantor G., The loneliness of the long-distance (PhD) researcher, Psychodynamic Practice, 26, 1, pp. 56-67, (2020); 
Creswell J., Educational research: Planning, conducting, and evaluating quantitative and qualitative research, (2015); 
Creswell J.W., Creswell J.D., Research design. Qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods approaches, (2018); 
Daniel S.J., Education and the COVID-19 pandemic, Prospects, 49, 1-2, pp. 91-96, (2020); 
Farnsworth V., Kleanthous I., Wenger-Trayner E., Communities of practice as a social theory of learning: A conversation with Etienne Wenger, British Journal of Educational Studies, 64, 2, pp. 139-160, (2016); 
Fereday J., Muir-Cochrane E., Demonstrating rigor using thematic analysis: A hybrid approach of inductive and deductive coding and theme development, International Journal of Qualitative Methods, 5, 1, pp. 80-92, (2006); 
Johnson R.B., Onwuegbuzie A.J., Mixed methods research: A research paradigm whose time has come, Educational Researcher, 33, pp. 14-26, (2004); 
Kvale S., Doing interviews, (2007); 
Lave J., Wenger E., Situated learning. Legitimate peripheral participation, (1991); 
Mannay D., Visual, Narrative and Creative Research Methods: Application, reflection and ethics, (2015); 
Mason R., Effective facilitation of online learning: The Open University experience, Teaching and learning online: New pedagogies for new technologies, pp. 67-75, (2018); 
Mik-Meyer N., Multimethod qualitative research, Qualitative research, pp. 357-374, (2020); 
Miles M.B., Huberman M., Qualitative data analysis: A sourcebook of new methods, (1994); 
Olszewska K., Lock J., Examining success and sustainability of academic writing: A case study of two writing-group models, The Canadian Journal of Higher Education, 46, 4, (2016); 
Parker R., A learning community approach to doctoral education in the social sciences, Teaching in Higher Education, 14, 1, pp. 43-54, (2009); 
Saldana J., The coding manual for qualitative researchers, (2009); 
Staarman J., Mercer N., The Guided construction of knowledge: Talk between teachers and students, International handbook of psychology, pp. 75-104, (2010); 
Starke-Meyering D., Writing groups as critical spaces for engaging normalized institutional cultures of writing in doctoral education, Writing groups for doctoral education and beyond: Innovations in practice and theory, pp. 137-165, (2014); 
Stieha V., Critical friend, The SAGE Encyclopedia of action research, pp. 206-208, (2014); 
Teddlie C., Tashakkori A., Foundations of mixed methods research: Integrating quantitative and qualitative approaches in the social and behavioral sciences, (2009); 
Toulmin S., The uses of argument, (1958); 
van de Pol J., Mercer N., Volman M., Scaffolding student understanding in small-group work: Students’ uptake of teacher support in subsequent small-group interaction, Journal of the Learning Sciences, 28, 2, pp. 206-239, (2019); 
Van Rooij E., Fokkens-Bruinsma M., Jansen E., Factors that influence PhD candidates' success: The importance of PhD project characteristics, Studies in Continuing Education, 43, 1, pp. 48-67, (2021); 
Waycott J., Thompson C., Sheard J., Clerehan R., A virtual panopticon in the community of practice: Students' experiences of visible on social media, The Internet and Higher Education, 35, pp. 12-20, (2017); 
Wenger E., Communities of practice: Learning meaning and identity (in doing social, cognitive and computational perspectives), (1998); 
Wenger E., Knowledge management as a doughnut, Ivey Business Journal, (2004); 
Wenger E., Social learning capacity: Four essays on innovation and learning in social systems, Re-shaping learning: A critical reader: The future of learning spaces in post-compulsory education, (2011); 
Wenger E., McDermott R.A., Snyder W., Cultivating communities of practice: A guide to managing knowledge, (2002); 
Wenger E., Trayner B., de Laat M., Promoting and assessing value creation in communities and networks: A conceptual framework, (2011); 
Whisker G., Morris C., Cheng M., Masika R., Warnes M., Trafford V., Robinson G., Lilly J., Doctoral learning journeys, (2010)#FRF#
