#ITI#Gaps, guesswork, and ghosts lurking in technology integration: Laws and policies applicable to student privacy#FTI#
#IRE# Technology integration and learning analytics offer insights to improve educational experiences and outcomes. In advancing these efforts, laws and policies govern these environments placing protections, standards, and developmental opportunities for higher education, students, faculty, and even the nation-state. Nonetheless, evidence of educational restrictions, encumbered actions, and archaic approaches pervades the legal literature and case law demonstrating that these laws and policies do not always function well in evolving and emerging technology spaces. To examine these laws and policies of student privacy, the author employs the combination of a critical policy analysis, which derives from critical social research as a means to explore discourse and policy through drawing out the policy contexts, texts, and consequences, and Flood's liberating systems theory, which directs the analysis to a problem-solving approach by examining the policy discourse from a systems-thinking lens. Based on a review of 184 court cases, 74 policies from a diversified representation of US states/territories, and seven developed nations or multi-nation consortia, this examination illuminates how context and text such as the type and setting of the privacy matter (eg, various freedom of information acts, educational records under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, and General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union) presents opportunities for protections and standardization efforts; however, they also illustrate significant protection gaps, guesswork and insufficiency around the type and degree of data subject consent, and ghosting effects of data subjects' protections. While the extant literature already supports aspects of these findings, it does not account for this holistic view of these three privacy vulnerabilities—especially in light of the principles to which these laws purport to achieve. Moreover, the three identified privacy vulnerabilities suggest overlooked inclusion of two overarching privacy concepts—transparency and equity. This study recommends that key actors in the policy construction realm (ie, university leaders, policymakers, and judges) should engage in analyses, dialogue, and consideration about transparency and equity by considering contemporary privacy problems in the contexts of artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and cybersecurity as a way to improve transparent and equitable policies in these areas rather than exacerbating the privacy dilemmas already in place. Practitioner notes What is already known about this topic In the United States, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) are well documented evidence of privacy protections for education and health records, but they fail to offer sufficient protections for students as data subjects with emerging technologies. Existing federal-level laws in the United States do not offer a systematic or uniform approach in the manner that data users obtain consent, so data subjects are largely unaware of what is being consented. Other than matters of consent, policy strategies based on student privacy laws (ie, voluntary consensus standards, basic practices to maintain privacy, an ethics review board, data/record retention and destruction, and data sanitation of equipment) are significant and informative largely from the university-perspective, not the students as data subjects. What this paper adds A new comprehensive examination of US laws including statutes, regulations, and cases as well as seven key nation-state or national consortia laws—especially the EU's General Data Protection Regulation and selected state laws in the United States, which offer consistent and greater student privacy protections. Insights about the principles designed among the laws, which centre around their application, essentiality, consent, and security. Attention to areas in which student privacy laws still present privacy concerns, but specifically identifying issues of significant gaps, guesswork and insufficiency around levels and types of consent, and ghosting effects of data subjects' protections. Implications for practice and/or policy Data subject consent should be established and consistent– whether an opt-out provision, opt-in provision, or some extensive engagement. Student privacy policies should incorporate principles of transparency and equity for data subjects and data treatment. Policymakers should consider now how the intersections of data subject privacy matters shall be addressed in the context of artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and cybersecurity#FRE#
#IPC# critical policy analysis; Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act; General Data Protection Regulation; laws; liberating systems; postsecondary education; privacy#FPC#
#IRF# Almond-Dannenbring T., Easter M., Feng L., Guarcello M., Ham M., Machajewski S., Maness H., Miller A., Mooney S., Moore A., Kendall E., A framework for student success analytics, (2022); 
Attaran M., Stark J., Stotler D., Opportunities and challenges for big data analytics in US higher education: A conceptual model for implementation, Industry and Higher Education, 32, 3, pp. 169-182, (2018); 
Beetham H., Collier A., Czerniewicz L., Lamb B., Lin Y., Ross J., Scott A.-M., Wilson A., Surveillance practices, risks and responses in the post pandemic university, Digital Culture & Education, 14, 1, pp. 16-37; 
Blau I., Goldberg S., Friedman A., Eshet-Alkalai Y., Violation of digital and analog academic integrity through the eyes of faculty members and students: Do institutional role and technology change ethical perspectives?, Journal of Computing in Higher Education: Research & Integration of Instructional Technology, 33, 1, pp. 157-187, (2021); 
Cone K.L., Peltz-Steele R.J., FERPA close-up: When video captures violence and injury, Oklahoma Law Review, 70, 4, pp. 839-886, (2018); 
Cranor L.F., Egelman S., Sheng S., McDonald A.M., Chowdhury A., P3P deployment on websites, Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, 7, 3, pp. 274-293, (2008); 
Daggett L.M., FERPA in the twenty-first century: Failure to effectively regulate privacy for all students, Catholic University Law Review, 58, 1, pp. 59-113, (2008); 
Daniel B., Big data and analytics in higher education: Opportunities and challenges, British Journal of Educational Technology, 46, 5, pp. 904-920, (2015); 
(2022); 
Drake B.M., Walz A., Evolving business intelligence and data analytics in higher education, New Directions for Institutional Research, 2018, 178, pp. 39-52, (2018); 
(2022); 
El-Khattabi M., Mining for success: Have student data privacy and educational data mining created a legislative war zone?, University of Illinois Journal of Law, Technology and Policy, 2017, 2, pp. 511-538, (2017); 
(2023); 
Flood R.L., Liberating systems theory: Toward critical systems thinking, Human Relations, 43, 1, pp. 49-75, (1990); 
Foster C., Francis P., A systematic review on the deployment and effectiveness of data analytics in higher education to improve student outcomes, Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 45, 1, pp. 1-20; 
Heiser R., Dello Stritto M.E., Brown A., Croft B., Amplifying student and administrator perspectives on equity and bias in learning analytics: Alone together in higher education, Journal of Learning Analytics, 10, 1, pp. 8-23, (2023); 
Jones K.M.L., Learning analytics and higher education: A proposed model for establishing informed consent mechanisms to promote student privacy and autonomy, International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 16, 1, pp. 1-22, (2019); 
Krawitz M., Law J., Litman S., How higher-education institutions can transform themselves using advanced analytics, (2018); 
Lane J.E., Finsel B.A., Fostering smarter colleges and universities: Data, big data, and analytics, Building a smarter university: Big data, innovation, and analytics, pp. 3-24, (2014); 
Li W., Sun K., Schaub F., Brooks C., Disparities in students' propensity to consent to learning analytics, International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 32, 3, pp. 564-608, (2022); 
May M., Iksal S., Usener C.A., The side effect of learning analytics: An empirical study on e-learning technologies and user privacy, Computers supported education, international conference on computer supported education 2016, 739, pp. 279-295, (2017); 
Oreopoulos P., Patterson R.W., Petronijevic U., Pope N.G., When studying and nudging don't go as planned: Unsuccessful attempts to help traditional and online college students (Working Paper 25036), (2018); 
(2022); 
Reisman M., University use of big data surveillance and student privacy, Florida State University Law Review, 48, 2, pp. 559-606, (2021); 
Robert J., 2022 students and technology report: Rebalancing the student experience, 2022; 
Rubel A., Biava R., A framework for analyzing and comparing privacy states, Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 65, 12, pp. 2422-2431, (2014); 
Rubel A., Jones K.M.L., Student privacy in learning analytics: An information ethics perspective, Information Society, 32, 2, pp. 143-159, (2016); 
Sclater N., Learning analytics explained, (2017); 
Sheridan P.M., Edtech in higher education: Protecting student data privacy in the classroom, North Carolina Journal of Law & Technology, 24, 1, pp. 49-83, (2022); 
Sun J.C., Legal issues associated with big data in higher education: Ethical considerations and cautionary tales, Building a smarter university: Big data, innovation, and ingenuity, (2014); 
Taylor S., Critical policy analysis: Exploring contexts, texts, and consequences, Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, 18, 1, pp. 23-35, (1997); 
Young E., Educational privacy in the online classroom: FERPA, moocs, and the big data conundrum, Harvard Journal of Law & Technology, 28, 2, pp. 549-592, (2015)#FRF#
