#ITI#A gamified instant perspective comparison system to facilitate online discussion effectiveness#FTI#
#IRE# Online discussion is one of the frequently used learning activities in an e-learning process. Learners can exchange opinions and thoughts with their peers through online discussion, stimulate their different viewpoints on the discussion topics, and enhance the learning effectiveness of e-learning. However, most learners mainly take an effort on posting discussion content but easily ignore reading and understanding the contents of peers' discussions, thus reducing the discussion effectiveness. The purpose of this study is to develop an Instant Perspective Comparison System with a Gamified Incentive Mechanism (IPCS-GIM) to promote learners' discussion awareness and motivation, thereby effectively enhancing their discussion participation, motivation, and effectiveness. A true-experimental design was conducted in this research to examine the research questions. A total of 38 university students in Taiwan were randomly assigned to the experimental group using the IPCS-GIM to assist online discussion and the control group using an instant perspective comparison system without a gamified incentive mechanism (IPCS-NGIM) to assist online discussion to examine their difference in discussion effectiveness, participation, and motivation on a social-scientific issue (SSI). The analytical results show that compared to the IPCS-NGIM, the IPCS-GIM could not only significantly enhance learners' discussion effectiveness in overall discussion effectiveness, complexity, and multiple perspectives, but also significantly enhance learners' discussion participation and motivation. Practitioner notes What is already known about this topic An asynchronous online discussion that can allow learners to exchange opinions and thoughts with their peers, stimulate different viewpoints and enhance learning effectiveness is one of the frequently used learning activities in an e-learning process. However, most learners mainly take an effort on posting discussion content but easily ignore reading and understanding the contents of peers' discussions, thus reducing the discussion effectiveness. An asynchronous online discussion may result in less enthusiastic discussions, learners may feel isolated due to the lack of immediate peer feedback, or they may not know what to contribute to a discussion topic. The lack of visual cues and immediate feedback is also one of the main factors affecting asynchronous online discussion effectiveness. In recent years, many studies have paid attention to promoting the discussion process and effectiveness by visualizing asynchronous online discussion content and interaction. What this paper adds This study uses gamified incentive mechanisms including a bonus point, title name, and leaderboard to develop a novel Instant Perspective Comparison System with a Gamified Incentive Mechanism (IPCS-GIM) to promote learners' discussion effectiveness, participation, and motivation on social-scientific issues (SSI) discussions. The result shows that compared to the Instant Perspective Comparison System without a Gamified Incentive Mechanism (IPCS-NGIM), the IPCS-GIM could not only significantly enhance learners' discussion effectiveness in overall discussion effectiveness, complexity, and multiple perspectives, but also significantly enhance learners' discussion participation and motivation. Implications for practice and/or policy Current research on the application of gamification design to asynchronous online discussions mainly focuses on enhancing learners' participation, engagement, and motivation, but there is a lack of research on the use of gamified incentive mechanisms to promote learners' reading of other peers' posts to achieve better quality discussions and enhance discussion effectiveness. This study fills the research gap. This study confirms that the proposed novel IPCS-GIM can promote learners' discussion on reading other peers' posts, participation, and motivation to what extent due to its gamified incentive mechanisms, visualized discussion cues, and immediate feedback, thereby effectively enhancing learners' discussion effectiveness. This study broadens the horizon of the design of asynchronous online-assisted discussion tools#FRE#
#IPC# discussion effectiveness; discussion motivation; discussion participation; gamified incentive mechanism; online discussion; socio-scientific issues#FPC#
#IRF# Alcaraz-Dominguez S., Barajas M., Conceptualization of socioscientific issues in educational practice from a review of research in science education, International Journal of Information and Education Technology, 11, 6, pp. 297-302, (2021); 
Anderson J.R., Reder L.M., Simon H.A., Situated learning and education, Educational Researcher, 25, 4, pp. 5-11, (1996); 
Branon R.F., Essex C., Synchronous and asynchronous communication tools in distance education, TechTrends, 45, 1, (2001); 
Braun V., Clarke V., Using thematic analysis in psychology, Qualitative Research in Psychology, 3, 2, pp. 77-101, (2006); 
Bull S., Greer J., Mccalla G., Kettel L., Help-seeking in an asynchronous help forum. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education, (2001); 
Chen C.M., Li M.C., Chang W.C., Chen X.X., Developing a topic analysis instant feedback system to facilitate asynchronous online discussion effectiveness, Computers & Education, 163, (2021); 
Chen C.M., Li M.C., Huang Y.L., Developing an instant semantic analysis and feedback system to facilitate learning performance of online discussion, Interactive Learning Environments, pp. 1-19, (2020); 
Chen C.M., Tsao H.W., An instant perspective comparison system to facilitate learners' discussion effectiveness in an online discussion process, Computers & Education, 164, (2021); 
Cheng Z., Long Y., Koehler A.A., Supporting problem solving with asynchronous online discussions: A social network analysis, Education Technology and Research Development, 70, pp. 737-763, (2022); 
Chou Y.K., Actionable gamification: Beyond points, badges and leaderboards, (2016); 
Darabi A., Jin L., Improving the quality of online discussion: The effects of strategies designed based on cognitive load theory principles, Distance Education, 34, 1, pp. 21-36, (2013); 
Ding L., Kim C., Orey M., Studies of student engagement in gamified online discussions, Computers & Education, 115, pp. 126-142, (2017); 
Dominguez A., Saenz-de-Navarrete J., de-Marcos L., Fernandez-Sanz L., Pages C., Martinez-Herraiz J.J., Gamifying learning experiences: Practical implications and outcomes, Computers & Education, 63, pp. 380-392, (2013); 
Feiz P., Hooman H.A., Kooshki S., Assessing the motivated strategies for learning questionnaire (MSLQ) in Iranian students: Construct validity and reliability, Procedia—Social and Behavioral Sciences, 84, pp. 1820-1825, (2013); 
Gao F., Zhang T., Franklin T., Designing asynchronous online discussion environments: Recent progress and possible future directions, British Journal of Educational Technology, 44, 3, pp. 469-483, (2013); 
Ge Z.G., The impact of a forfeit-or-prize gamified teaching on e-learners' learning performance, Computers & Education, 126, pp. 143-152, (2018); 
Goshtasbpour F., Swinnerton B.J., Pickering J.D., Twelve tips for engaging learners in online discussions, Medical Teacher, 44, 3, pp. 244-248, (2022); 
Hasan H.F., Nat M., Vanduhe V.Z., Gamified collaborative environment in Moodle, IEEE Access, 7, pp. 89833-89844, (2019); 
Hew K.F., Cheung W.S., Ng C.S.L., Student contribution in asynchronous online discussion: A review of the research and empirical exploration, Instructional Science, 38, 6, pp. 571-606, (2010); 
Huang B., Hwang G.J., Hew K.F., Warning P., Effects of gamification on students' online interactive patterns and peer-feedback, Distance Education, 40, 3, pp. 350-379, (2019); 
Jan J.C., Chen C.M., Huang P.H., Enhancement of digital reading performance by using a novel web-based collaborative reading annotation system with two quality annotation filtering mechanisms, International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 86, pp. 81-93, (2016); 
Jin S.H., Educational effects on the transparency of peer participation levels in asynchronous online discussion activities, IEEE Transactions on Learning Technology, 14, 5, pp. 604-612, (2021); 
Kaliisa R., Dolonen J.A., CADA: A teacher-facing learning analytics dashboard to foster teachers' awareness of students' participation and discourse patterns in online discussions, Technology Knowledge and Learning, (2022); 
Knutas A., Ikonen J., Nikula U., Porras J., Increasing collaborative communications in a programming course with gamification: A case study, (2014); 
Larson B.E., Keiper T.A., Classroom discussion and threaded electronic discussion: Learning in two arenas, Contemporary Issues in Technology and Teacher Education, 2, 1, pp. 45-62, (2002); 
Liu P., Guo Y., Wang F., Li G., Chinese named entity recognition: The state of the art, Neurocomputing, 473, pp. 37-53, (2022); 
Manku G.S., Jain A., Das Sarma A., Detecting near-duplicates for web crawling, Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web—WWW ’07. Banff, (2007); 
Marbouti F., Wise A.F., Starburst: A new graphical interface to support purposeful attention to others' posts in online discussions, Educational Technology Research and Development, 64, 1, pp. 87-113, (2016); 
Mikolov T., Chen K., Corrado G., Dean J., Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. In Proceedings of Workshop at ICLR, (2013); 
Pintrich P.R., Smith D.A.F., Garcia T., McKeachie W.J., A manual for the use of the Motivated Strategies for Learning Questionnaire (MSLQ), (1991); 
Sadler T.D., Socio-scientific issues in the classroom: Teaching, learning and research, (2011); 
Sadler T.D., Barab S.A., Scott B., What do students gain by engaging in socioscientific inquiry?, Research in Science Education, 37, 4, pp. 371-391, (2007); 
Seethamraju R., Effectiveness of using online discussion forum for case study analysis, Education Research International, 2014, pp. 1-10, (2014); 
Tiene D., Online discussions: A survey of advantages and disadvantages compared to face-to-face discussions, Journal of Educational Multimedia and Hypermedia, 9, pp. 371-384, (2000); 
Tzelepi M., Makri1 K., Petroulis I., Moundridou1 M., Papanikolaou1 K., Gamification in online discussions: How do game elements affect critical thinking?, (2020); 
Xie K., Debacker T.K., Ferguson C., Extending the traditional classroom through online discussion: The role of student motivation, Journal of Educational Computing Research, 34, 1, pp. 67-89, (2006); 
Ye D., Pennisi S., Analysing interactions in online discussions through social network analysis, Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 38, pp. 784-796, (2022); 
Zainuddin Z., Shujahat M., Haruna H., Chu S.K.W., The role of gamified e-quizzes on student learning and engagement: An interactive gamification solution for a formative assessment system, Computers & Education, 145, (2020); 
Zeidler D.L., Sadler T.D., Simmons M.L., Howes E.V., Beyond STS: A research-based framework for socioscientific issues education, Science Education, 89, pp. 357-377, (2005); 
Zhang Z., Designing grading policy to motivate student participation in online discussion forum, International Journal of Innovation and Learning, 9, 1, pp. 1-20, (2011)#FRF#
