#ITI#Curriculum analytics adoption in higher education: A multiple case study engaging stakeholders in different phases of design#FTI#
#IRE# Several studies have indicated that stakeholder engagement could ensure the successful adoption of learning analytics (LA). Considering that researchers and tech developers may not be aware of how LA tools can derive meaningful and actionable information for everyday use, these studies suggest that participatory approaches based on human-centred design can provide stakeholders with the opportunity to influence decision-making during tool development. So far, there is a growing consensus about the importance of identifying stakeholders' needs and expectations in early stages, so researchers and developers can design systems that resonate with their users. However, human-centred LA is a growing sub-field, so further empirical work is needed to understand how stakeholders can contribute effectively to the design process and the adoption strategy of analytical tools. To illustrate mechanisms to engage various stakeholders throughout different phases of a design process, this paper presents a multiple case study conducted in different Latin American universities. A series of studies inform the development of an analytical tool to support continuous curriculum improvement, aiming to improve student learning and programme quality. Yet, these studies differ in scope and design stage, so they use different mechanisms to engage students, course instructors and institutional administrators. By cross analysing the findings of these three cases, three conclusions emerged for each design phase of a CA tool, presenting mechanisms to ensure stakeholder adoption after tool development. Further implications of this multiple case study are discussed from a theoretical and methodological perspective. Practitioner notes What is already known about this topic? Human-centred learning analytics (LA) has accommodated different configurations of stakeholder engagement, including co-design and participatory design. Participatory design provides developers with a wide variety of techniques to engage a particular group in a mutual learning process. Most studies mainly focus on engaging stakeholders to identify needs in the early stages of the design process. More empirical works are needed to unveil the effectiveness of human centredness during LA design and after tool development. What this paper adds? Provides a multiple case study to illustrate mechanisms to engage various stakeholders in different design phases of a curriculum analytics (CA) tool. Summarises different assertions based on case study findings regarding needs for analytical tool, its early evaluation and its potential use after development. Provides empirical evidence on how to promote stakeholder engagement at a specific design stage and for a specific purpose. The implications for practitioners LA researchers and developers can use assertions based on evidence as a starting point to drive the design process of CA solutions. Researchers and practitioners will have a set of protocols to implement participatory techniques in different design phases of a CA tool#FRE#
#IPC# curriculum analytics; higher education; multiple case study; participatory design; stakeholder engagement#FPC#
#IRF# Ali L., Asadi M., Gasevic D., Jovanovic J., Hatala M., Factors influencing beliefs for adoption of a learning analytics tool: An empirical study, Computers & Education, 62, pp. 130-148, (2013); 
Alzahrani A., Tsai Y.S., Kovanovic V., Moreno-Marcos P.M., Jivet I., Aljohani N., Gasevic D., Success-enablers of learning analytics adoption in higher education: A quantitative ethnographic study, Communications in Computer and Information Science, 1522 CCIS, pp. 395-409, (2022); 
Bannan-Ritland B., The role of design in research: The integrative learning design framework, Educational Researcher, 32, 1, pp. 22-24, (2003); 
Bodker S., Dindler C., Iversen O.S., Smith R.C., What is participatory design?, Participatory design, pp. 5-13, (2022); 
Buckingham Shum S., Ferguson R., Martinez-Maldonado R., Human-centred learning analytics, Journal of Learning Analytics, 6, 2, pp. 1-9, (2019); 
Cooper A., The inmates are running the asylum: Why high-tech products drive us crazy and how to restore the sanity, (1999); 
Cooper A., Reimann R., Cronin D., Noessel C., About face: The essentials of interaction design, (2014); 
Creswell J.W., Educational research: Planning, conducting, and evaluating quantitative and qualitative research, (2012); 
Eisenhardt K.M., Graebner M.E., Theory building from cases: Opportunities and challenges, Academy of Management Journal, 50, 1, pp. 25-32, (2007); 
Gray G., Cooke G., Murnion P., Rooney P., O'Rourke K.C., Stakeholders' insights on learning analytics: Perspectives of students and staff, Computers and Education, 187, (2022); 
Greer J., Molinaro M., Ochoa X., Mckay T., Learning analytics for curriculum and program quality improvement (PCLA 2016), Proceedings of the 6th International Learning Analytics & Knowledge Conference, pp. 494-495, (2016); 
Hernandez-Leo D., Jorrin-Abellan I.M., Villasclaras-Fernandez E.D., Asensio-Perez J.I., Dimitriadis Y., A multicase study for the evaluation of a pattern-based visual design process for collaborative learning, Journal of Visual Languages and Computing, 21, 6, pp. 313-331, (2010); 
Lang C., Davis L., Learning analytics and stakeholder inclusion: What do we mean when we say “human-centered”?, Proceedings of the 13th International Learning Analytics & Knowledge Conference, pp. 411-417, (2023); 
Lewis D.R., Carlson S., Riesbeck C., Lu K., Gerber E., Easterday M., The logic of effective iteration in design-based research, The Interdisciplinarity of the Learning Sciences, 14th International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) 2020, 2, pp. 1149-1156, (2020); 
McHugh M.L., Interrater reliability: The kappa statistic, Biochemia Medica, 22, 3, pp. 276-282, (2012); 
Miranda C., Crash Course de AntroDiseño: Herramientas Aplicadas de AntroDiseño para Proyectos de Innovación Temprana en Productos, Servicios y Experiencias [AnthroDiseño crash course: Applied AnthroDesign tools for early innovation projects in products, services and experiences], (2019); 
Perez-Sanagustin M., Santos P., Hernandez-Leo D., Blat J., 4SPPIces: A case study of factors in a scripted collaborative-learning blended course across spatial locations, International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning, 7, 3, pp. 443-465, (2012); 
Prieto L.P., Rodriguez-Triana M.J., Martinez-Maldonado R., Dimitriadis Y., Gasevic D., Orchestrating learning analytics (OrLA): Supporting inter-stakeholder communication about adoption of learning analytics at the classroom level, Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 35, 4, pp. 14-33, (2019); 
Romero C., Ventura S., Educational data mining and learning analytics: An updated survey, Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 10, 3, pp. 1-21, (2020); 
Saldana J., The coding manual for qualitative researchers, (2013); 
Sanders E.B.N., Jan Stappers P., Co-creation and the new landscapes of design Elizabeth, Co-Design, 4, 1, pp. 5-18, (2008); 
Sarmiento J.P., Wise A.F., Participatory and co-design of learning analytics: An initial review of the literature, Proceedings of the 12th International Learning Analytics & Knowledge Conference, pp. 535-541, (2022); 
Scheffel M., Niemann K., Jivet I., The evaluation framework for learning analytics, (2017); 
Scheffel M., Tsai Y., Gasevi D., Drachsler H., Learning analytics policies, Handbook of learning analytics, pp. 232-240, (2022); 
Stake R.E., Multiple case study analysis, (2006); 
Tsai Y.S., Rates D., Moreno-Marcos P.M., Munoz-Merino P.J., Jivet I., Scheffel M., Drachsler H., Delgado Kloos C., Gasevic D., Learning analytics in European higher education—Trends and barriers, Computers and Education, 155, (2020); 
Whitelock-Wainwright A., Gasevic D., Tsai Y.S., Drachsler H., Scheffel M., Munoz-Merino P.J., Tammets K., Delgado Kloos C., Assessing the validity of a learning analytics expectation instrument: A multinational study, Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 36, 2, pp. 209-240, (2020)#FRF#
