#ITI#ABCMETAapp: R shiny application for simulation-based estimation of mean and standard deviation for meta-analysis via approximate Bayesian computation#FTI#
#IRE# In meta-analysis based on continuous outcome, estimated means and corresponding standard deviations from the selected studies are key inputs to obtain a pooled estimate of the mean and its confidence interval. We often encounter the situation that these quantities are not directly reported in the literatures. Instead, other summary statistics are reported such as median, minimum, maximum, quartiles, and study sample size. Based on available summary statistics, we need to estimate estimates of mean and standard deviation for meta-analysis. We developed an R Shiny code based on approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), ABCMETA, to deal with this situation. In this article, we present an interactive and user-friendly R Shiny application for implementing the proposed method (named ABCMETAapp). In ABCMETAapp, users can choose an underlying outcome distribution other than the normal distribution when the distribution of the outcome variable is skewed or heavy tailed. We show how to run ABCMETAapp with examples. ABCMETAapp provides an R Shiny implementation. This method is more flexible than the existing analytical methods since estimation can be based on five different distributions (Normal, Lognormal, Exponential, Weibull, and Beta) for the outcome variable#FRE#
#IPC# approximate Bayesian computation; meta-analysis; R shiny application; sample mean; sample standard deviation#FPC#
#IRF# Hozo S.P., Djulbegovic B., Hozo I., Estimating the mean and variance from the median, range, and the size of a sample, BMC Med Res Methodol, 5, (2005); 
Bland M., Estimating the mean and variance from the sample size, three quartiles, minimum, and maximum, Int J Stat Med Res, 4, pp. 57-64, (2015); 
Wan X., Wang W., Liu J., Tong T., Estimating the sample mean and standard deviation from the sample size, median, range and/or interquartile range, BMC Med Res Methodol, 14, (2014); 
Kwon D., Reis I.M., Simulation-based estimation of mean and standard deviation for meta-analysis via approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), BMC Med Res Methodol, 15, (2015); 
Chang W., Cheng J., Allaire J., Xie Y., McPherson J., Shiny: web application framework for R. R Package Version 1.4.0; 2019; 
Tavare S., Balding D., Griffith R., Donnelly P., Inferring coalescence times from DNA sequence data, Genetics, 145, 2, pp. 505-518, (1997); 
Beaumont M.A., Approximate Bayesian computation in evolution and ecology, Annu Rev Ecol, 41, pp. 379-406, (2010); 
Marin J.M., Pudlo P., Robert C.P., Ryder R.J., Approximate Bayesian computational methods, Stat Comput, 22, 6, pp. 1168-1180, (2012); 
Toni T., Welch D., Strelkowa N., Ipsen A., Stumpf M.P.H., Approximate Bayesian computation scheme for parameter inference and model selection in dynamical systems, J R Soc Interface, 6, pp. 187-202, (2009)#FRF#
