#ITI#A mapping exercise using automated techniques to develop a search strategy to identify systematic review tools#FTI#
#IRE# The Systematic Review Toolbox aims provide a web-based catalogue of tools that support various tasks within the systematic review and wider evidence synthesis process. Identifying publications surrounding specific systematic review tools is currently challenging, leading to a high screening burden for few eligible records. We aimed to develop a search strategy that could be regularly and automatically run to identify eligible records for the SR Toolbox, thus reducing time on task and burden for those involved. We undertook a mapping exercise to identify the PubMed IDs of papers indexed within the SR Toolbox. We then used the Yale MeSH Analyser and Visualisation of Similarities (VOS) Viewer text-mining software to identify the most commonly used MeSH terms and text words within the eligible records. These MeSH terms and text words were combined using Boolean Operators into a search strategy for Ovid MEDLINE. Prior to the mapping exercise and search strategy development, 81 software tools and 55 ‘Other’ tools were included within the SR Toolbox. Since implementation of the search strategy, 146 tools have been added. There has been an increase in tools added to the toolbox since the search was developed and its corresponding auto-alert in MEDLINE was originally set up. Developing a search strategy based on a mapping exercise is an effective way of identifying new tools to support the systematic review process. Further research could be conducted to help prioritise records for screening to reduce reviewer burden further and to adapt the strategy for disciplines beyond healthcare#FRE#
#IPC# automation; evidence synthesis; information retrieval; literature search; search strategy; systematic reviews#FPC#
#IRF# Borah R., Brown A.W., Capers P.L., Kaiser K.A., Analysis of the time and workers needed to conduct systematic reviews of medical interventions using data from the PROSPERO registry, BMJ Open, 7, 2, (2017); 
Buscemi N., Hartling L., Vandermeer B., Tjosvold L., Klassen T.P., Single data extraction generated more errors than double data extraction in systematic reviews, J Clin Epidemiol, 59, 7, pp. 697-703, (2006); 
Ananiadou S., Rea B., Okazaki N., Procter R., Thomas J., Supporting systematic reviews using text mining, Soc Sci Comput Rev, 27, 4, pp. 509-523, (2009); 
Bannach-Brown A., Przybyla P., Thomas J., Et al., Machine learning algorithms for systematic review: reducing workload in a preclinical review of animal studies and reducing human screening error, Syst Rev, 8, 1, pp. 1-12, (2019); 
Begert D., Granek J., Irwin B., Brogly C., Using automation for repetitive work involved in a systematic review, CCDR, 46, 6, pp. 174-179, (2020); 
Arno A., Elliott J., Wallace B., Turner T., Thomas J., The views of health guideline developers on the use of automation in health evidence synthesis, Syst Rev, 10, 1, pp. 1-10, (2021); 
Munn Z., Brandt L., Kuijpers T., Et al., Are systematic review and guideline development tools useful? A Guidelines International Network survey of user preferences, JBI Evid Implement, 18, 3, pp. 345-352, (2020); 
Marshall C., Tool Support for Systematic Reviews in Software Engineering, (2016); 
Marshall C., Sutton A., O'Keefe H., Johnson E., The Systematic Review Toolbox, (2022); 
Beller E., Et al., Making progress with the automation of systematic reviews: principles of the International Collaboration for the Automation of Systematic Reviews (ICASR), Syst Rev, 7, 1, pp. 1-7, (2018); 
Cushing/Whitney Medical Library, Y.U. Yale MeSH Analyzer, (2021); 
Van Eck N.J., Waltman L., Software survey: VOSviewer, a computer program for bibliometric mapping, Scientometrics, 84, 2, pp. 523-538, (2010); 
Ouzzani M., Hammady H., Fedorowicz Z., Elmagarmid A., Rayyan—a web and mobile app for systematic reviews, Syst Rev, 5, (2016); 
Johnson E.E., O'Keefe H., Sutton A., Marshall C., The Systematic Review Toolbox: keeping up to date with tools to support evidence synthesis, Syst Rev, 11, 1, pp. 1-8, (2022); 
Sutton A., Marshall C., Better, faster, stronger: how to find tools to expedite the systematic review process, Cochrane Colloquium, (2018); 
O'Keefe H., SCRPT: SCReening Prioritisation Tool; 
Adam G.P., Paynter R., Development of literature search strategies for evidence syntheses: pros and cons of incorporating text mining tools and objective approaches, BMJ Evid-Based Med, 28, 2, pp. 137-139, (2022); 
Stockholm Environment Institute#FRF#
