#ITI#Catchii: Empowering literature review screening in healthcare#FTI#
#IRE# A systematic review is a type of literature review that aims to collect and analyse all available evidence from the literature on a particular topic. The process of screening and identifying eligible articles from the vast amounts of literature is a time-consuming task. Specialised software has been developed to aid in the screening process and save significant time and labour. However, the most suitable software tools that are available often come with a cost or only offer either a limited or a trial version for free. In this paper, we report the release of a new software application, Catchii, which contains all the important features of a systematic review screening application while being completely free. It supports a user at different stages of screening, from detecting duplicates to creating the final flowchart for a publication. Catchii is designed to provide a good user experience and streamline the screening process through its clean and user-friendly interface on both computers and mobile devices. All in all, Catchii is a valuable addition to the current selection of systematic review screening applications. It enables researchers without financial resources to access features found in the best paid tools, while also diminishing costs for those who have previously relied on paid applications. Catchii is available at https://catchii.org#FRE#
#IPC# data extraction; duplicate detection; screening; systematic review; web application#FPC#
#IRF# NCBI PubMed; 
Van der Mierden S., Tsaioun K., Bleich A., Leenaars C.H.C., Software tools for literature screening in systematic reviews in biomedical research, ALTEX, 36, pp. 508-517, (2019); 
DistillerSR Inc. DistillerSR; 
EPPI-Centre EPPI-Reviewer: systematic review software; 
Sciome LLC SWIFT Active Screener; 
Veritas Health Innovation Covidence systematic review software; 
Rayyan; 
Harrison H., Griffin S.J., Kuhn I., Usher-Smith J.A., Software tools to support title and abstract screening for systematic reviews in healthcare: an evaluation, BMC Med Res Methodol, 20, (2020); 
Borah R., Brown A.W., Capers P.L., Kaiser K.A., Analysis of the time and workers needed to conduct systematic reviews of medical interventions using data from the PROSPERO registry, BMJ Open, 7, (2017); 
Waffenschmidt S., Knelangen M., Sieben W., Buhn S., Pieper D., Single screening versus conventional double screening for study selection in systematic reviews: a methodological systematic review, BMC Med Res Methodol, 19, (2019); 
Halman A., Records for determining the sensitivity and capabilities of duplicate detection systems [dataset], (2023); 
The Systematic Review Accelerator (SRA)#FRF#
