#ITI#What Counts as a Minority-Serving Institution? Toward the Utilization of a Standardized and Uniform Definition and Typology#FTI#
#IRE# Minority-serving institutions (MSIs) are unique in their ability to support the educational advancement of students of color. Approximately one in five postsecondary institutions are eligible for funding under an MSI designation, yet more than half of all undergraduate students of color are enrolled in such colleges and universities. However, there continues to be great disagreement and confusion about how to define MSIs. Researchers, policymakers, advocacy organizations, and even institutions themselves have advanced different and inconsistent definitions as to what might be considered an MSI. Given these contrasting constructions of MSIs, the purpose of this article is to offer a uniform definition and typology as to how MSIs should be defined and to construct an MSI dataset based upon this approach. We assert that this approach will yield more accuracy to the description and study of MSIs, which will greatly benefit and inform the work of institutional leaders, advocates, policymakers, and the broader MSI research community#FRE#
#IPC# action research; diversity; educational policy; higher education; law/legal; policy analysis; race#FPC#
#IRF# Allen W.R., Jewell J.O., A backward glance forward: Past, present and future perspectives on historically Black colleges and universities, Review of Higher Education, 45, 3, pp. 241-261, (2002); 
Minority serving institutions as engines of upward mobility, (2018); 
Biden J.R., The Biden plan for education beyond high school, (2020); 
Boland W.C., The Higher Education Act and minority serving institutions: Towards a typology of Title III and V funded programs, Education Sciences, 8, 1, (2018); 
Bull C.C., Guillory J., Revolution in higher education: Identity & cultural beliefs inspire tribal colleges & universities, Deadalus, 147, 2, pp. 95-105, (2018); 
California State University’s Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions, (2016); 
Espinsoa L.L., McGuire K., Jackson L.M., Minority serving institutions: America’s underutilized resource for strengthening the STEM workforce, (2019); 
Garcia G.A., What does it mean to be Latinx-serving? Testing the utility of the typology of HSI organizational identities, Association of Mexican American Educators Journal, 11, 3, pp. 109-138, (2017); 
Garcia G.A., Becoming Hispanic-serving institutions: Opportunities for colleges and universities, (2019); 
Gonzalez E., Ortega G., Molina M., Lizalde G., What does it mean to be a Hispanic-serving institution? Listening to the Latina/o/x voices of students, International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, 33, 8, pp. 796-809, (2020); 
Hegji A., Programs for minority-serving institutions under the Higher Education Act, (2017); 
Hispanic-serving institution definitions, (2017); 
Khanna R., CAPAC members commemorate 10th anniversary of the Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving-Institutions Program, (2017); 
Li A.Y., Gandara D., Assalone A., Equity or disparity: Do performance funding policies disadvantage 2-year minority-serving institutions?, Community College Review, 46, 3, pp. 288-315, (2018); 
Notice of funding opportunity: Humanities initiatives, humanities initiatives at colleges and universities, humanities initiatives at Hispanic-serving institutions, humanities initiatives at Historically Black Colleges and Universities, humanities initiatives at Tribal Colleges and Universities, humanities initiatives at community colleges, (2021); 
HSI certification form; 
Nelson C.A., Frye J.R., Tribal college and university funding: Tribal sovereignty at the intersection of federal, state, and local funding, (2016); 
Nguyen M.H., Building capacity for student success at Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions (AANAPISI): Transforming the educational experiences of Asian American and Pacific Islander students, The Journal of Higher Education, (2021); 
Department of Education budget tables, (2020)#FRF#
