#ITI#Learning Design Experiences of the Namibian Teachers during the COVID-19 Pandemic: an Ethnographic Perspective#FTI#
#IRE#This study presents an ethnographic account of the learning design experiences of six Namibian teachers during school closures caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The study explores the emotions, perspectives and actions of these teachers and also reveals the influence of personal, institutional and national culture on their learning design decisions, processes and outcomes. This exploration is important because it surfaces and highlights teacher experiences with learning design that can be used to influence practice and policy in future emergency situations. Data were collected using a variety of educational ethnographic techniques including artefacts, formal and informal interviews, and stimulated recall from video presentations. Five knowledge criteria were identified around the learning design and innovative processes of emergency remote teaching. These knowledge criterion include the Professional and School Context, Emotions of the participants at the time; Perspectives and actions to meet the Challenge; Process and Preparations for Remote teaching; Learning Design Context-based Decisions (including the processes used; the outcomes, and teaching artefacts). Results indicate that the school situation and context influenced the appropriate learning design materials. Furthermore, results showed that lack of infrastructure, access and connectivity as well as teacher ICT confidence and competency affected the decision making in learning design. Most of all, fear of being infected by SARS CoV-2 and fear for one’s life gripped teachers such that they were unable to fully engage in problem-solving for designing appropriate learning materials for learners#FRE#
#IPC#Access and equity; COVID19 fears and emotions of teachers; Emergency remote teaching in Namibia; Learning design; Policy implementation; Self-directed-learning; Teacher preparedness#FPC#
#IRF#Bayer R., Nembwaya H., The Glaring Digital Divide, (2020); 
Bozkurt A., Jung I., Xiao J., Vladimirschi V., Schuwer R., Egorov G., Lambert S., Al-Freih M., Pete J., Olcott D., Rodes V., Aranciaga I., Bali M., Alvarez A.J., Roberts J., Pazurek A., Raffaghelli J.E., Panagiotou N., de Coetlogon P., Shahadu S., Brown M., Asino T.I., Tumwesige J., Ramirez Reyes T., Barrios Ipenza E., Ossiannilsson E., Bond M., Belhamel K., Irvine V., Sharma R.C., Adam T., Janssen B., Sklyarova T., Olcott N., Ambrosino A., Lazou C., Mocquet B., Mano M., Paskevicius M., A global outlook to the interruption of education due to COVID-19 pandemic: Navigating in a time of uncertainty and crisis, Asian Journal of Distance Education, 15, 1, pp. 1-126, (2020); 
(2019); 
Greiner C., Migration, translocal networks and socio-economic stratification in Namibia, Africa, 81, 4, pp. 606-627, (2011); 
Hailombe O., Education Equity and Quality in Namibia: A Case Study of Mobile Schools in the Kunene Region, (2011); 
Kacelo P.M., Boer P.J., Chainda A.M., The impact of international computer driving license training on the use of information and communication technologies in the classrooms by teachers in the Zambezi region, The Namibia CPD Journal for Educators, 5, pp. 87-108, (2019); 
Kapuka A., Hlasny T., Social vulnerability to natural hazards in Namibia: A district-based analysis, Sustainability, 12, 12, (2020); 
Mabuku M.P., Senzanje A., Mudhara M., Jewitt G., Mulwafu W., Zambezi Region of Namibia, (2016); 
Mabuku M.P., Senzanje A., Mudhara M., Jewitt G., Mulwafu W., Rural households’ flood preparedness and social determinants in Mwandi district of Zambia and eastern Zambezi region of Namibia, International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, 28, pp. 284-297, (2018); 
Maweu F., Mwenja J.M., An e-Readiness Assessment of ICT Integration in Public Primary Schools in Kenya Case of Nyeri County, International Journal of Computer Applications Technology and Research, 6, 6, pp. 264-268, (2017); 
Miles M.B., Huberman A.M., Saldana J., Qualitative Data Analysis: A Methods Sourcebook, (2014); 
March 2009 flood, (2009); 
Nengomasha C.T., Shuumbili T.N., Access to e-government services by citizens through public/community libraries in Namibia, Information Development, (2020); 
Shikololo A.; 
Skovdal M., Campbell C., Beyond education: What role can schools play in the support and protection of children in extreme settings?, International Journal of Educational Development, 41, pp. 175-183, (2015); 
Taukeni S., Chitiyo G., Chitiyo M., Asino I., Shipena G., Post-traumatic stress disorder amongst children aged 8-18 affected by the 2011 northern-Namibia floods, Jàmbá: Journal of Disaster Risk Studies, 8, 2, pp. 1-6, (2016)#FRF#
