#ITI#Field-based local stream research in undergraduate classes: an inquiry-based approach#FTI#
#IRE#Experiential learning is recognized as a high-impact educational practice. Fieldwork is an important component of the geographic tradition. When implemented using an inquiry-based approach, fieldwork can be a highly effective form of experiential education. However, many geography instructors are dissuaded from implementing inquiry-based fieldwork because of logistical challenges. Here, a modular, semester-long fieldwork design is presented, involving inquiry-based research on local streams. This framework has been successfully implemented twice in undergraduate classes. A total of 37 undergraduate students did physical habitat assessments and water-quality monitoring on urban streams in Greensboro, North Carolina, USA. Quantitative and qualitative anonymous student evaluations and student work products provide preliminary support for the approach’s effectiveness in enhancing student learning. The practical advantages of the presented fieldwork design are that it is less costly in time and money than fully field-based courses, it breaks up a large class into more manageable group sizes, and it alleviates some of the common concerns about accessibility, equity, and risk management. While still needing to be systematically assessed, the pedagogical benefits potentially include development of critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, interpersonal, and affective skills#FRE#
#IPC#Experiential education; fieldwork; inquiry-based learning; pedagogy; physical geography; streams#FPC#
#IRF#Andelkovic S., Dedjanski V., Pejic B., Pedagogical benefits of fieldwork of the students at the faculty of geography in the light of the bologna process, Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 42, pp. 110-125, (2018); 
France D., Haigh M., Fieldwork@40: Fieldwork in geography higher education, Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 42, pp. 498-514, (2018); 
Holton M., “It was amazing to see our projects come to life!” Developing affective learning during geography fieldwork through tropophilia, Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 41, pp. 198-212, (2017); 
Hudak P.F., Campus field exercises for introductory geoscience courses, Journal of Geography, 102, pp. 220-225, (2003); 
Munge B., Thomas G., Heck D., Outdoor fieldwork in higher education: Learning from multidisciplinary experience, Journal of Experiential Education, 41, 4, pp. 39-53, (2018); 
Spronken-Smith R., Toward securing a future for geography graduates, Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 37, pp. 315-326, (2013); 
Vogt B.J., Skop E., The Silverton Field Experience: A model geography course for achieving high-impact educational practices (HEPs), Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 41, pp. 574-589, (2017); 
Wilson H., Leydon J., Wincentak J., Fieldwork in geography education: Defining or declining? The state of fieldwork in Canadian undergraduate geography programs, Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 41, pp. 94-105, (2017)#FRF#
