#ITI#Impact of open educational resources on student performance in an introductory Geography course#FTI#
#IRE#There is a growing body of evidence that Open Educational Resources (OERs) are a viable alternative to traditional “for cost” teaching materials. This paper provides a reflection on the process and outcomes of developing and implementing OER within an introduction Human-Environment Geography lecture-laboratory course. Evidence is further provided in support of improvements to the academic performance and completion rates of students enrolled in the course after the implementation of OERs over a period of 4–6 years. Results of the study indicate students’ academic performance significantly increased once OERs were incorporated into the classroom compared to the use of traditional materials purchased by the students. The rate of student withdrawal also was significantly less once OERs were implemented. The improvements to students’ academic performance and retention occurred despite OER being only used in the laboratory component of the course, suggesting that even a partial implementation of OERs can still have significant positive effects. The use of OERs can be considered as a legitimate option to increasing retention and student academic success in the Geography classroom#FRE#
#IPC#academic performance; laboratory; OER; STEM education; withdrawal rates#FPC#
#IRF#Adams R.V., Blair E., Impact of time management behaviors on undergraduate engineering students’ performance, SAGE Open, 9, 1, pp. 1-11, (2019); 
Conney C., What impacts do OER have on students? Students share their experiences with a health psychology OER at New York City College of Technology, International Review of Research in Open & Distributed Learning, 18, 4, (2017); 
DiGangi C., College textbooks cost 1041% more than in 1977, Money, (2015); 
Grewe K.E., Davis W.P., The impact of enrollment in an OER course on student learning outcomes, International Review of Research in Open & Distributed Learning, 18, 4, pp. 231-238, (2017); 
Hayes J., Human-environment Geography laboratory manual, (2017); 
Jenkins J.J., Sanchez L.A., Schraedley M.A.K., Hannans J., Navick N., Young J., Textbook broke: Textbook affordability as a social justice issue, Journal of Interactive Media in Education, 1, 3, pp. 1-13, (2020); 
Kim D., Lee Y., Leite W.L., Huggins-Manley A.C., Exploring student and teacher usage patterns associated with student attrition in an open educational resource-supported online learning platform, Computers and Education, 156, (2020); 
Nusbaum A.T., Cuttler C., Swindell S., Open educational resources as a tool for educational equity: Evidence from an introductory psychology class, Frontiers in Education, 4, (2020); 
Okamoto K., Making higher education more affordable, one course reading at a time: Academic libraries as key advocates for Open access textbooks and educational resources, Public Services Quarterly, 9, 4, pp. 267-283, (2013); 
Suriano Z.J., Introduction to Human-environment Geography: An open educational resource laboratory manual, (2021); 
Vojtech G., Grisset J., Student perceptions of college faculty who use OER, International Review of Research in Open & Distributed Learning, 18, 4, (2017); 
Weller M., de Los Arcos B., Farrow R., Pitt B., McAndrew P., The impact of OER on teaching and learning practice, Open Praxis, 7, 4, pp. 351-361, (2015); 
Williamson S., Stevens R.E., Silver L.S., Clow K.E., Sticker shock: Management professors’ perspectives on the rising costs of college textbooks, Administrative Issues Journal Education Practice and Research, 1, 1, pp. 130-139, (2011); 
Winitzky-Stephens J., Pickavance J., Open education resources and student learning outcomes: A multilevel analysis, International Review of Research in Open & Distributed Learning, 18, 4, pp. 35-49, (2017)#FRF#
