#ITI#The enhancement of academic integrity through a community of practice at the North-West University, South Africa#FTI#
#IRE#This article was motivated by the need to academically frame and share the response of the North-West University (NWU) to the perceived increase of academic dishonesty during Covid-19. Within the ambit of the online (hybrid) teaching and learning approach that became dominant during the Covid-19 pandemic, the NWU established a Community of Practice for Academic Integrity (CoPAI) to enhance Academic Integrity (AI) in a holistic manner. By critically discussing the NWU’s response through their CoPAI, the lessons learned, and strategies developed in the process, the NWU can hopefully assist other Higher Education institutes to progressively enhance AI in the future. This is important, because many contextual shifts in teaching and learning approaches, pedagogy, assessment, and the application of technology, that were enforced in an online mode of delivery during the pandemic, will prevail in future. In writing this article, we focused on contextualising the NWU CoPAI within current literature on community of practice (CoP) and Academic integrity (AI) and emphasising the unique strategy and holistic nature of this CoPAI. The establishment of the CoPAI is discussed within the appreciative inquiry as methodological framework. This methodology is commonly used by CoPs, but it is particularly relevant to the CoPAI since CoPAI sought answers to all the AI questions that presented itself due to disruptions in the higher education landscape. The appreciative inquiry method allowed for the opportunity to find some answers in a holistic manner. Some of these answers or insights gained through the activities of CoPAI is further discussed in the latter part of the article. In conclusion, some of the outcomes and shortcomings of CoPAI at the NWU are highlighted. The main finding of this article concluded that the establishment of a CoPAI can enhance AI at HE institutions in a holistic manner. The applicability, relevance, and success of this CoPAI was realised through its holistic approach which included the valorisation of institutional aspects, the engagement and empowerment of lecturers, and the engagement and empowerment of students. This novel and unique approach to promote AI in HE could fill the existing knowledge gap in the South African context, where the establishment of a CoPAI, the application of appreciative inquiry as methodology, and the inclusion of a holistic approach are still absent. It might however also be an example for other HE institutions to follow globally#FRE#
#IPC#Academic integrity; Academic success; Appreciative inquiry; Community of practice; Covid-19; Higher education; Learning and assessment; Teaching#FPC#
#IRF#Awdry R., Newton P.M., Staff views on commercial contract cheating in higher education: a survey study in Australia and the UK, High Educ, 78, pp. 593-610, (2019); 
Baboolal-Frank R., Emergency remote learning during the pandemic from a South African perspective, Int J Educ Integr, 17, 1, (2021); 
What is Appreciative Inquiry?, A Short Guide to the Appreciative Inquiry Model & Process, (2017); 
Cahapay M.B., Problems Encountered by College Students in Online Assessment Amid COVID-19 Crisis: A Case Study, IJCSIT, (2021); 
Draper M.J., Newton P.M., A legal approach to tackling contract cheating?, Int J Educ Integr, 13, (2017); 
Eaton S.E., Figueroa B.M., Butterworth C., Feledichuk D., Leslie K., Lothian J., Murray J., Sodeen C., Wheatley B., Reflections on the First Year of Integrity Hour: An Online Community of Practice for Academic Integrity, Can Perspect Acad Integr, 4, 1, (2021); 
Integrity Hour: A Guide to Developing and Facilitating an Online Community of Practice for Academic Integrity, (2020); 
Gorgani H.H., Shabani S., Online exams and the COVID-19 pandemic: a hybrid modified FMEA, QFD, and k-means approach to enhance fairness, SN Applied Sciences, 3, 10, (2021); 
Hodges C., Moore S., Lockee B., Trust T., Bond A., The difference between emergency remote teaching and online learning, Educause Review, 27, pp. 1-12, (2020); 
Jamieson M.V., Keeping a Learning Community and Academic Integrity Intact after a Mid-Term Shift to Online Learning in Chemical Engineering Design During the COVID-19 Pandemic, J Chem Educ, 97, pp. 2768-2772, (2020); 
Khan S., Kambris M.E.K., Alfalahi H., Perspectives of University Students and Faculty on remote education experiences during COVID-19- a qualitative study, Educ Inf Technol, (2021); 
Krautloher A., Sheele D., Shaeri S., Craig M.-L., Ladd L., Crawford R., Communities of Practice – a better way for professional development of academics, Charles Sturt Edx 17/11/21, (2021); 
Lave J., Wenger E., Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral participation, (1991); 
Meccawy Z., Meccawy M., Alsobhi A., Assessment in ‘survival mode’: Student and faculty perceptions of online assessment practices in HE during Covid-19 pandemic, Int J Educ Integr, 17, 16, (2021); 
Mercieca B., What Is a Community of Practice?, Communities of Practice, (2017); 
Meulmeester F.L., Dubois E.A., Krommenhoek-van Es C., Et al., Medical Students’ Perspectives on Online Proctoring During Remote Digital Progress Test, Med Sci Educ, 31, pp. 1773-1777, (2021); 
Moore C., What is Appreciative Inquiry? A Brief History & Real Life Examples, (2021); 
Mutongoza B.H., Impetuses For Cheating In COVID-19-Induced Online Assessments At A Rural University In South Africa,  International Conference on Advance Research in Social Science, (2021); 
Newton P.M., How common is commercial contract cheating in higher education and is it increasing? A systematic review, Front Educ, 3, 67, pp. 1-18, (2018); 
Nistor N., Daxecker I., Stanciu D., Diekamp O., Sense of community in academic communities of practice: predictors and effects, High Educ, 69, pp. 257-273, (2014); 
Reedy A.K., Wurm P.A.S., Janssen A., Lockley A., A community of practice approach to enhancing academic integrity policy translation: A case study, Int J Educ Integr, 17, (2021); 
Reedy A.K., Pfitzner D., Rook L., Et al., Responding to the COVID-19 emergency: student and academic staff perceptions of academic integrity in the transition to online exams at three Australian universities, Int J Educ Integr, 17, 9, (2021); 
Scheele D., Krautloher A., Shaeri S., Craig M.-L., Crawford R., The value of a community of practice in the subject design process when embedding interactive oral assessments, Back to the Future – ASCILITE ‘21. Proceedings ASCILITE 2021 in 0Armidale, pp. 93-102, (2021); 
Usick B., Stoesz B.M., Contract Cheating in Canada: Editorial, Canadian Perspectives on Academic Integrity, 4, 2, (2021); 
Verhoef A.H., Coetser Y.M., Academic integrity of university students during emergency remote online assessment: An exploration of student voices, Transformation in Higher Education, 6, (2021); 
Verhoef A.H., Du Toit J., Du Preez P., Being-in-the-COVID-19-world: Existence, technology and embodiment, Acta Theologica, 40, 2, pp. 150-164, (2020); 
Waghid Y., Davids N., On The Polemic of Academic Integrity in Higher Education, S Afr J High, 33, 1, pp. 1-5, (2019); 
Walsh L.L., Lichti D.A., Zambrano-Varghese C.M., Et al., Why and how science students in the United States think their peers cheat more frequently online: Perspectives during the COVID-19 pandemic, Int J Educ Integr, 17, 23, (2021)#FRF#
