#ITI#Exploring transcultural competence in the internationalised university classroom: the role of intercultural friendships and plurilingualism in the construction of a transcultural identity#FTI#
#IRE#This mixed-methods study explores whether undergraduates in a multilingual, multicultural university–and more specifically in a multi-dimensionally internationalised classroom–manifest transcultural competence when starting university studies. The article precisely focuses on the role of intercultural friendships and personal and family plurilingualism in the construction of an identity that reveals such competence, namely, a transcultural identity. Data include profile and transcultural competence questionnaires as well as interviews and classroom observations. Descriptive statistics and regression analyses show that first-year undergraduates in such a university display transcultural competence at the start of their studies, but more so students with intercultural friendships, personal or family plurilingualism, or belonging to a multi-dimensionally internationalised classroom. Qualitative data document that this educational context may trigger affordances for diversified plurilingual intercultural interactions in which transcultural competence may manifest in the form of a complex transcultural ‘twenty-first-century youth identity’ that is linked to sensitivities and attitudes valuing heritage as well as a transnational way of life#FRE#
#IPC#Higher education; intercultural friendships; internationalised classroom; plurilingualism; transcultural competence; transcultural identity#FPC#
#IRF#Barrett M., Competences for Democratic Culture. Living Together as Equals in Culturally Diverse Democratic Societies, (2016); 
Byram M., Teaching and Assessing Intercultural Communicative Competence, (1997); 
Chen G.M., Starosta W.J., Communication and Global Society, (2000); 
Creswell J.W., Research Design: Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches, (2003); 
Deardorff D.K., Identification and Assessment of Intercultural Competence as a Student Outcome of Internationalization, Journal of Studies in International Education, 10, 3, pp. 241-266, (2006); 
Griffith R.L., Wolfeld L., Armon B.K., Rios J., Liu O.L., (2016); 
Newman M., Trenchs-Parera M., Corona V., Down the Sociolinguistic Rabbit Hole: The Complexities and Contradictions of Spanish in Barcelona, The Routledge Handbook of Spanish in the Global City, pp. 357-386, (2019); 
Newman M., Trenchs-Parera M., Ng S., Normalizing Bilingualism: The Effects of the Catalonian Linguistic Normalization Policy One Generation After, Journal of Sociolinguistics, 12, pp. 306-333, (2008); 
Nwafor C.E., Obi-Nwosu H., Atalor A., Okoye C.A.F., Toward Globalization: Construct Validation of Global Identity Scale in a Nigerian Sample, Psychology & Society, 8, 1, pp. 85-99, (2016); 
Perez-Vidal C., Language Acquisition in Study Abroad and Formal Instruction Contexts, (2014); 
Pogorelova I., A Study of Intercultural Adaptation and Development of Intercultural Sensitivity of Catalan/Spanish University Students During Study Abroad, (2016); 
Pogorelova I., Trenchs-Parera M., An Exploration of Life Experiences During Study Abroad: A Case Study of Bilingual Students and Their Process of Intercultural Adaptation, Learning Context Effects: Study Abroad, Formal Instruction and International Immersion Classrooms, pp. 255-282, (2018); 
Thompson C.H., A Dialogic Approach to the Design of a Transcultural Communication Classroom Activity for Multilingual Learners, Language, Culture and Curriculum, 24, 3, pp. 207-220, (2011); 
Trenchs-Parera M., Higher Education Language Policies at the Crossroads of Glocal Challenges: Rethinking Multilingualism, Internationalization and Public Service in Catalonia, Second and Third Language Acquisition in Monolingual and Bilingual Contexts, pp. 15-44, (2019); 
Trenchs-Parera M., Newman M., Diversity of Language Ideologies in Spanish-Speaking Youth of Different Origins in Catalonia, Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 30, 6, pp. 509-524, (2009); 
Trenchs-Parera M., Tristan Jimenez L., Interaccions al barri: un estudi de les pràctiques lingüístiques dels joves immigrants i les seves famílies a Catalunya, Recerca i Immigració VI, pp. 143-165, (2014); 
Turken S., Rudmin F.W., On Psychological Effects of Globalization: Development of a Scale of Global Identity, Psychology and Society, 5, 2, pp. 63-89, (2013); 
Yashima T., Willingness to Communicate in a Second Language: The Japanese EFL Context, The Modern Language Journal, 86, 1, pp. 54-66, (2002); 
Yashima T., International Posture and the Ideal L2 Self in the Japanese EFL Context, Motivation, Language Identity and the L2 Self, pp. 144-163, (2009)#FRF#
