#ITI#Progression in Self-Efficacy, Interest, Identity, Sense of Belonging, Perceived Recognition and Effectiveness of Peer Interaction of Physics Majors and Comparison with Non-Majors and Ph.D. Students#FTI#
#IRE#The importance of science beliefs such as self-efficacy, interest, identity, sense of belonging, perceived recognition and effectiveness of peer interaction in science education has been increasingly recognized in recent years. Self-efficacy, interest, and identity can be considered students’ internal beliefs, and sense of belonging, perceived recognition and effectiveness of peer interaction relate to students’ perception of the inclusiveness of the instructional environment. Prior studies in physics education regarding these beliefs have focused primarily on introductory physics courses. Here, we use five years of data from a validated survey administered to non-majors (in courses with physics majors) during their first year, physics majors throughout their undergraduate education, and first-year physics Ph.D. students at a large research university in the United States. We find that physics majors in the first year responded to the survey prompts more positively than their non-physics major peers who were in the same introductory courses, with the largest differences in perceived recognition, interest, and physics identity and somewhat smaller differences in self-efficacy, perception of peer interaction, and sense of belonging. Further, the average survey responses of physics majors for each belief remain largely constant over time from their first year of the undergraduate curriculum through the last year and comparable to the Ph.D. students. This suggests that students are adjusting their interpretation of the survey items to match the current level of expertise expected of them in the course in which the survey was administered. One exception occurs in the second year, when peer interaction and sense of belonging reach a minimum. This may be the case because the second year is a particularly difficult time for students as they adjust to classes consisting primarily of physics majors. Moreover, physics identity dips to the lowest value in the fourth year when many students are contemplating continuing in physics beyond their undergraduate years or switching fields. We also find that, consistent with prior studies with introductory students, perceived recognition is the best predictor of physics identity for physics majors throughout their entire physics education, pointing to the importance of instructors making a concerted effort to recognize and affirm their students throughout their education#FRE#
#IPC#Motivation; Science identity; Self-efficacy; Social belonging; Structural equation modeling#FPC#
#IRF#Aguilar, Et al., Psychological insights for improved physics teaching, Physics Today, 67, (2014); 
Banchefsky, Et al., The role of social and ability belonging in men’s and women’s pSTEM persistence, Frontiers in Psychology, 10, (2019); 
Social cognitive theory of self-regulation, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 50, (1991); 
Binning, Et al., Changing social norms to foster the benefits of collaboration in diverse workgroups, Psychological Science, 31, 9, pp. 1-12, (2020); 
Broda, Et al., Reducing inequality in academic success for incoming college students: A randomized trial of growth mindset and belonging interventions, Journal of Research on Educational Effectiveness, 11, (2018); 
Browne, Cudeck, Alternative ways of assessing model fit, Sociological Methods & Research, 21, pp. 230-258, (1992); 
Cohen, Et al., Applied multiple regression/correlation analysis for the behavioral sciences, (2003); 
Exploring woman university physics students ‘doing gender’ and ‘doing physics’, Gender and Education, 24, (2012); 
Freedman, Et al., Statistics 4th ed, (2007); 
Glynn, Et al., Science motivation questionnaire II: Validation with science majors and nonscience majors, Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 48, (2011); 
Godwin, Et al., Identity, critical agency, and engineering: An affective model for predicting engineering as a career choice, Journal of Engineering Education, 105, (2016); 
Exploring how gender figures the identity trajectories of two doctoral students in observational astrophysics, PRPER, 14, (2018); 
Hazari, Et al., Connecting high school physics experiences, outcome expectations, physics identity, and physics career choice: A gender study, Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 47, pp. 978-1003, (2010); 
Hazari, Et al., The science identity of college students: Exploring the intersection of gender, race, and ethnicity, Journal of College Science Teaching, 42, (2013); 
Hazari, Et al., Factors that affect the physical science career interest of female students: Testing five common hypotheses, PRPER, 9, (2013); 
Hazari, Et al., The context dependence of physics identity: Examining the role of performance/competence, recognition, interest, and sense of belonging for lower and upper female physics undergraduates, Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 57, pp. 1583-1607, (2020); 
Interest: A unique motivational variable, Educational Research Review, 1, (2006); 
Hurtado, Carter, Effects of college transition and perceptions of the campus racial climate on Latino college students' sense of belonging, Sociology of Education, 70, pp. 324-345, (1997); 
Kalender, Et al., Gendered patterns in the construction of physics identity from motivational factors, PRPER, 15, (2019); 
Kalender, Et al., Why female science, technology, engineering, and mathematics majors do not identify with physics: They do not think others see them that way, PRPER, 15, (2019); 
Karim, Et al., Do evidence-based active-engagement courses reduce the gender gap in introductory physics?, European Journal of Physics, 39, (2018); 
Kline, Principles and practice of structural equation modeling 3rd ed, (2011); 
Lock, Et al., Impact of out-of-class science and engineering activities on physics identity and career intentions, PRPER, 15, (2019); 
Mahar, Et al., Conceptualizing belonging, Disability and Rehabilitation, 35, (2013); 
Maries, Et al., Active learning in an inequitable learning environment can increase the gender performance gap: The negative impact of stereotype threat, The Phys. Teach., 58, pp. 430-433, (2020); 
Marra S., Et al., Women engineering students and self-efficacy: A multi-year, multi-institution study of women engineering student self-efficacy, Journal of Engineering Education, 98, (2009); 
Marshman, Et al., Female students with A’s have similar physics self-efficacy as male students with C’s in introductory courses: A cause for alarm?, PRPER, 14, (2018); 
Maslow, Theory of human motivation, Dominance, self-esteem, self-actualization: Germinal papers of A. Maslow, (1973); 
Montgomery, Et al., Introduction to linear regression analysis 4th ed, (2012); 
Nissen, Shemwell, Gender, experience, and self-efficacy in introductory physics, PRPER, 12, (2016); 
Mindset survey, retrieved, (2019); 
Theobald, Et al., Active learning narrows achievement gaps for underrepresented students in undergraduate science, technology, engineering, and math, PNAS, 117, pp. 6476-6483, (2020); 
Trujillo, Tanner, Considering the role of affect in learning: Monitoring students' self-efficacy, sense of belonging, and science identity, CBE Life Sciences Education, 13, pp. 6-15, (2014); 
Walton, Carr, Social belonging and the motivation and intellectual achievement of negatively stereotyped students, Stereotype threat: Theory, process, and application, pp. 89-106, (2012); 
Whitcomb K.M., Investigating gender differences in course relationships, self-efficacy, and identity in physics and promoting equity in learning outcomes., (2020); 
Yeager, Walton, Social-psychological interventions in education: They’re not magic, Review of Educational Research, 81, pp. 267-301, (2011)#FRF#
