#ITI#The DreamSpace STEM-21CLD model as an aid to inclusion of pupils with special education needs#FTI#
#IRE#Fostering inclusion of students with Special Education Needs (SEN) within mainstream classroom supports positive education outcomes for all. Teachers’ attitudes towards inclusion can also impact; those teachers who perceive themselves as well-trained are more likely to hold positive attitudes towards inclusion. Classroom practices which focus on 21st Century skill development, including collaboration, problem-solving and technology have the potential to positively impact on the education outcomes of students with SEN. The current research sought to explore these themes, and the role a STEM-21st Century Learning by Design (STEM-21CLD) education activity has on teachers’ perceptions and attitudes towards, students with SEN. Nineteen teachers who participated in the STEM-21CLD education activity took part in this qualitative study. Thematic analyses revealed that teachers perceived students differently following participation in the STEM-21CLD activity. Teachers reported seeing students as more confident and capable of leadership. Teachers attitudes towards student with SEN were positively impacted, with a skill focused classroom seen as having a positive influence. Teachers described practical constraints; withdrawal of students for supplementary learning support can mean that these students ‘miss out’ on skill focused learning activities. We argue that the STEM-21CLD learning approach can facilitate teachers to consider inclusive classroom practices in new and innovative ways#FRE#
#IPC#21st century skills;; Education; qualitative research; teacher attitudes#FPC#
#IRF#Assessment and Teaching of 21st Century Skills, (2014); 
Bricker D.D., Felimban H.S., Lin F.Y., Stegenga S.M., Storie S.O.M., A Proposed Framework for Enhancing Collaboration in Early Intervention/Early Childhood Special Education, Topics in Early Childhood Special Education, (2020); 
Butler V.L., 21st-century Schools and School Leadership: Creating and Sustaining Innovation, (2016); 
Chiner E., Cardona M.C., Inclusive Education in Spain: How Do Skills, Resources, and Supports Affect Regular Education Teachers’ Perceptions of Inclusion?, International Journal of Inclusive Education, 17, 5, pp. 526-541, (2013); 
Erdogan N., Stuessy C., Examining the Role of Inclusive STEM Schools in the College and Career Readiness of Students in the United States: A Multi-group Analysis on the Outcome of Student Achievement, Educational Sciences: Theory & Practice, 15, 6, pp. 1517-1529, (2015); 
Ghergulescu I., Lynch T., Marilena Bratu A., Moldovan C., Muntean H., Muntean G.M., STEM Education with Atomic Structure Virtual Lab for Learners with Special Education Needs, International Conference on Education and New Learning Technologies (EduLearn: Spain), (2018); 
Hjelte J., Ineland J., Quality in Professional Encounters with Students Who Have Intellectual Disabilities–Experiences from Special Needs Upper Secondary Schools in Sweden, European Journal of Special Needs Education, pp. 1-15, (2020); 
Leonard N.M., Smyth S., Does Training Matter? Exploring Teachers’ Attitudes Towards the Inclusion of Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder in Mainstream Education in Ireland, International Journal of Inclusive Education, pp. 1-15, (2020); 
Means B., Wang H., Viki Y., Peters V.L., Lynch S.J., STEM-focused High Schools as a Strategy for Enhancing Readiness for Postsecondary STEM Programs, Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 53, 5, pp. 709-736, (2016); 
O'Toole C., Burke N., Ready, Willing and Able? Attitudes and Concerns in Relation to Inclusion Amongst a Cohort of Irish Pre-Service Teachers, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 28, 3, pp. 239-253, (2013); 
Sharma U., Nuttal A., The Impact of Training on pre-Service Teacher Attitudes, Concerns, and Efficacy Towards Inclusion, Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education, 44, 2, pp. 142-155, (2016); 
Shear L., Gallagher G., Patel D., Evolving Educational Ecosystems: Executive Summary of Phase I ITL Research Results, (2011); 
Shear L., Novais G., Means B., Gallagher L., Langworthy M., ITL Research Design, (2010); 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, (2007); 
The Future of Jobs Report 2018, (2018); 
Yada A., Savolainen H., Japanese In‐service Teachers’ Attitudes toward Inclusive Education and Self‐efficacy for Inclusive Practices, Teaching and Teacher Education, 64, pp. 222-229, (2017)#FRF#
