#ITI#Where next for research on teaching assistants: the case for an international response#FTI#
#IRE#In this paper, the guest editors consider the direction of research on teaching assistants (TAs), and how academics can elevate the field within the spheres of education and the social sciences. We begin by unpicking, and endorsing, Giangreco’s idea of applying the ‘Maslow’s Hammer test’ (expressed in this special issue) to manuscripts about studies of TAs and inclusion to journal editorship and peer review processes. The purpose of the test is to address the disproportionate attention paid by researchers to a set of narrow and recurring interests, and to open up new lines of inquiry and discussions about the innovative methodological approaches required to operationalise them. Secondly, we describe a persistent and urgent research gap: the shortage of international data on TAs. Given the pre-eminence of TA deployment as a means to facilitate access to and participation in mainstream education for pupils with special educational needs, we argue that the continued lack of large-scale data on TAs’ characteristics, experiences, practices and impact poses a risk to advancing the global inclusion agenda. Finally, we make a call for expressions of interest in establishing an international research network to help expand, empower and raise the esteem the field of scholarship on TAs. #FRE#
#IPC#Paraprofessionals; Research; TALIS; Teaching assistants#FPC#
#IRF#Alborz A., Pearson D., Farrell P., Howes A., The Impact of Adult Support Staff on Pupils and Mainstream Schools, (2009); 
Andersen S.C., Beuchert L., Nielsen H.S., Thomsen M.K., The Effect of Teacher’s Aides in the Classroom: Evidence from a Randomized Trial, Journal of the European Economic Association, 18, 1, pp. 469-505, (2018); 
Blatchford P., Bassett P., Brown P., Koutsoubou M., Martin C., Russell A., Webster R., Rubie-Davies C., Deployment and Impact of Support Staff in Schools. Results from Strand 2, Wave 2, (2009); 
Butler P., Understanding the Invisible Workforce. Education Support Personnel’s Roles, Needs and the Challenges They Face, (2019); 
Billion Pound Covid Catch-up Plan to Tackle Impact of Lost Teaching Time, (2020); 
Giangreco M.F., Maslow’s Hammer: Teacher Assistant Research and Inclusive Practices at a Crossroads, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 36, (2021); 
Hemelt S.W., Ladd H.F., Clifton C.R., Do Teacher Assistants Improve Student Outcomes? Evidence from School Funding Cutbacks in North Carolina, Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, (2021); 
Kessler I., Bach S., Heron P., Assistant Roles and Changing Job Boundaries in the Public Services. Final Report, (2005); 
Nickow A., Oreopoulos P., Quan V., The Impressive Effects of Tutoring on PreK-12 Learning: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of the Experimental Evidence, NBER working paper No. 27476, (2020); 
Ostlund D., Barow T., Dahlberg K., Johansson A., In between Special Needs Teachers and Students: Paraprofessionals Work in Self-contained Classrooms for Students with Intellectual Disabilities in Sweden, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 36, (2021); 
Talis Faq, (2021); 
Annex A. Technical Notes on Sampling Procedures, Response Rates and Adjudication for TALIS 2018, (2021); 
The Global Education Monitoring Report, in Brief, (2021); 
(2021); 
Sharma U., Salend S.J., Teaching Assistants in Inclusive Classrooms: A Systematic Analysis of the International Research, Australian Journal of Teacher Education, 41, 8, pp. 118-134, (2016); 
Sharples J., EEF Blog: Six of the Best–How Our Latest Reports Can Help You Support Teaching Assistants to Get Results, (2016); 
Slavin R., Trans-Atlantic Concord: Tutoring by Paraprofessionals Works, (2016); 
Slavin R., New Findings on Tutoring: Four Shockers, (2018); 
Slavin R.E., Madden N.A., Neitzel A., Lake C., The National Tutoring Corps: Scaling up Proven Tutoring for Struggling Students. Concept Paper, (2020); 
Thornley C., The Invisible Workers: An Investigation into the Pay and Employment of Health Care Assistants in the NHS, (1997); 
Global Education Monitoring Report 2020: Inclusion and Education: All Means All, (2020); 
Wallace T., Paraprofessionals, (2003); 
Zhao Y., Rose R., Shevlin M., Paraprofessional Support in Irish Schools: From Special Needs Assistants to Inclusion Support Assistants, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 36, (2021)#FRF#
