#ITI#A study of the barriers to communication and learning of university students with hearing impairment during the COVID-19 pandemic#FTI#
#IRE#After the declaration of the State of Emergency in Spain in 2020 due to the Coronavirus pandemic, essential services were paralysed, including education. This change brought about consequences in the quality of education, especially in the support of students with hearing impairment. The general objective is to analyse the barriers to learning for students with hearing impairments at a Spanish university due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A qualitative descriptive study is presented in which 6 semi-structured interviews were conducted -four with hearing impaired university students, one with a Spanish Sign Language Interpreter and another with a technician from the university’s diversity service. The results show students with hearing impaired became vulnerable students, suffering processes of educational exclusion. The Coronavirus and the consequences arising from its appearance have had a great impact on the academic and social lives of the participants. This research identifies which specific barriers were experienced by the group with hearing impaired, different from those found by the rest of the groups. The conclusions show that barriers to communication increased significantly due to the use of masks, the delivery of classes in a digital format and the lack of preparation of the faculty members regarding online teaching#FRE#
#IPC#communication barriers; COVID-19; Hearing impairment; inclusion; virtual teaching#FPC#
#IRF#Atherton G., Perspectives on the Challenges to Access and Equity in Higher Education Across the World in the Context of COVID, (2021); 
Borjesson S., There is Still a Long Way to Go in Accessibility for People with Deafness or Hearing Loss, Unsurpassed Lives, (2020); 
Danchikov E., Prodanova N., Kovalenko Y., Bondarenko T., The Potential of Online Learning in Modern Conditions and Its Use at Different Levels of Education, Linguistics and Culture Review, 5, S1, pp. 578-586, (2021); 
Galletta A., Mastering the Semi-Structured Interview and Beyond: From Research Design to Analysis and Publication, (2013); 
Godber K.A., Robyn Atkins D., COVID-19 Impacts on Teaching and Learning: A Collaborative Autoethnography by Two Higher Education Lecturers, Front Education, 6, (2021); 
Hewett R., Douglas G., McLinden M., Keil S., Developing an Inclusive Learning Environment for Students with Visual Impairment in Higher Education: Progressive Mutual Accommodation and Learner Experiences in the United Kingdom, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 32, 1, pp. 89-109, (2017); 
Homans N.C., Vroegop J.L., The Impact of Face Masks on the Communication of Adults with Hearing Loss During COVID-19 in a Clinical Setting, International Journal of Audiology, 61, 5, pp. 365-370, (2022); 
McKinney E.L., Swartz L., Integration into Higher Education: Experiences of Disabled Students in South Africa, Studies in Higher Education, 47, 2, pp. 367-377, (2022); 
Melian E., Meneses J., Getting Ahead in the Online University: Disclosure Experiences of Students with Apparent and Hidden Disabilities, International Journal of Educational Research, 114, (2022); 
Morina A., Faculty Members Who Engage in Inclusive Pedagogy: Methodological and Affective Strategies for Teaching, Teaching in Higher Education, 27, 3, pp. 371-386, (2022); 
Silletti F., Ritella G., Iacobellis B., Semeraro C., Episcopo E., Cassibba R., Coppola G., Distance Learning in Higher Education During the First Pandemic Lockdown: The Point of View of Students with Special Educational Needs, Qwerty, 16, 2, pp. 30-46, (2021); 
Tai J., Mohoney P., Ajjawi R., Bearman M., Dargusch J., Dracup M., Harris L., How are Examinations Inclusive for Students with Disabilities in Higher Education? A Sociomaterial Analysis, Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, pp. 1-13, (2022); 
Thibodeau L.M., Thibodeau-Nielsen R.B., Mai Quynh Tran C., de Souza Jacob R.T., Communicating During COVID-19: The Effect of Transparent Masks for Speech Recognition in Noise, Ear and Hearing, 42, 4, pp. 772-781, (2021); 
Yang Y., Xiao Y., Liu Y., Qiong L., Shan C., Chang S., H-S Jen P., Mental Health and Psychological Impact on Students with or Without Hearing Loss During the Recurrence of the COVID-19 Pandemic in China, International Journal of Environmental Research and Public healthsearch and Public Health, 18, 4, (2021); 
Zhao Y., Maria Pinto-Llorente A., Cruz Sanchez-Gomez M., Digital Competence in Higher Education Research: A Systematic Literature Review, Computers & Education, 168, (2021); 
Zorec K., Desmond D., Boland T., McNicholl A., O'connor A., Stafford G., Gallagher P., A Whole-Campus Approach to Technology and Inclusion of Students with Disabilities in Higher Education in Ireland, Disability & Society, (2022)#FRF#
