#ITI#Exploring changes in collaboration through the professionalisation of learning and support assistants: a mixed methods study#FTI#
#IRE#The inclusion of all children in regular classrooms is an important aim in many European countries. For the implementation of inclusion some children rely on support via learning and support assistants. Despite the benefits assistants provide by enhancing student access and progress, assistants’ support has also been criticised for contributing to more exclusive than to inclusive processes in class. A necessary precondition for enhancing inclusive processes is the assistants’ extension of professional knowledge and competence. This study aims to evaluate the effects of a developed online tool for assistants’ professionalisation on the collaboration with teachers and parents. Moreover success factors in assistants’ work are identified. The quantitative study sample consisted of 70 assistants, teachers and parents. Focus group interviews with nine assistants and teachers were also conducted. The results of this mixed methods study showed that assistants, teachers and parents have a tendency to evaluate their collaboration more positively after assistants have made use of an online tool for professionalisation. All of them perceived the regular exchange of information to be particularly important. The results of this study also showed that clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of assistants is necessary if they are to work successfully in schools#FRE#
#IPC#inclusive education; mixed methods design; Multi-professional collaboration; professional development#FPC#
#IRF#Ainscow M., Booth T., Dyson A., Improving Schools, Developing Inclusion, (2006); 
Bacher J., Pfaffenberger M., Poschko H., Arbeitssituation und Weiterbildungsbedarf von Schulassistent/innen [Working situation and further training needs of school assistants, (2007); 
Biggs E., Gilson C., Carter E., Accomplishing More Together: Influences to the Quality of Professional Relationships between Special Educators and Paraprofessionals, Research and Practice for Persons with Severe Disabilities, 41, 4, pp. 256-272, (2016); 
Boing U., Und Dann Hab‘ Ich Das Ruckzuck Fertig Gemacht“ [“ … and Then I Finished It in No Time at All”.], Inklusion konkret. Assistenz und Bildung, pp. 19-27, (2017); 
Breyer C., Gasteiger-Klicpera B., Improving Assistance in Inclusive Educational Settings (IMAS II). Entwicklung Und Evaluierung web-basierter Wissensboxen Zur Förderung Inklusiver Kompetenzen von SchulassistentInnen. [Development and Evaluation of web-based Knowledge Boxes to Enhance Inclusive Competencies of School Assistants], Journal Für Psychologie, 27, 2, pp. 29-49, (2020); 
Breyer C., Lederer J., Gasteiger-Klicpera B., Learning and Support Assistants in Inclusive Education: A Transnational Analysis of Assistance Services in Europe, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 36, 3, pp. 344-357, (2020); 
Brown T., Stanton-Chapman T., Experiences of Paraprofessionals in US Preschool Special Education and General Education Classrooms, Journal of Research in Special Educational Needs, 17, 1, pp. 18-30, (2017); 
Butt R., Lowe K., Teaching Assistants and Class Teachers: Differing Perceptions, Role Confusion and the Benefits of skills-based Training, International Journal of Inclusive Education, 16, 2, pp. 207-219, (2012); 
Butt R., Teacher assistant support and deployment in mainstream schools, International Journal of Inclusive Education, 20, 9, pp. 995-1007, (2016); 
Giangreco M., Suter J., Doyle M.B., Paraprofessionals in Inclusive Schools: A Review of Recent Research, Journal of Educational and Psychological Consultation, 20, pp. 41-57, (2010); 
Giangreco M., Maslow’s Hammer: Teacher Assistant Research and Inclusive Practices at a Crossroads, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 36, 2, pp. 278-293, (2021); 
Grosche M., Was Ist Inklusion? [What Is Inclusion?, Inklusion von Schülerinnen und Schülern mit sonderpädagogischen Förderbedarf in Schulleistungserhebungen, pp. 17-39, (2015); 
Henn K., Thurn L., Fegert J., Ziegenhain U., Mortl K., Steinicke K., Man Ist Immer Mehr Oder Weniger Alleinkämpfer“–Schulbegleitung Als Herausforderung Für Die Interdisziplinäre Kooperation. Eine Qualitative Studie [“ You are Always More or Less the Lone Fighter”–School Assistants as A Challenge for Interdisciplinary Cooperation. A Qualitative Study.], Vierteljahresschrift für Heilpädagogik und ihre Nachbargebiete, 88, 2, pp. 114-127, (2019); 
Kauffeld S., FAT - Fragebogen Zur Arbeit Im Team. [Questionnaire about Team Collaboration, (2004); 
Krammer M., Gastager A., Paleczek L., Gasteiger-Klicpera B., Rossmann P., Collective self-efficacy Expectations in Co-teaching Teams–What are the Influencing Factors?, Educational Studies, 44, 1, pp. 99-114, (2018); 
Kuckartz U., Mix Methods. Methodologie, Forschungsdesings Und Analyseverfahren [Mix Methods. Methodology, Research Designs and Analytical Procedures, (2014); 
Kuckartz U., Qualitative Inhaltsanalyse. Methoden, Praxis, Computerunterstützung [Qualitative Content Analysis. Methods, Practice, Computer Support, (2016); 
Lederer J., Breyer C., Gasteiger-Klicpera B., Concept of Knowledge Boxes–A Tool for Professional Development for Learning and Support Assistants, Improving Schools, 24, 2, pp. 137-151, (2020); 
Leibetseder M., Damit jede/r weiß, was zu tun ist. Praxismaterial zum Aufgabenklärung von Assistenz in inklusiven Klassen, Inklusion Konkret. Assistenz Und Bildung [Inclusion in Concrete Terms. Assistance and Education, pp. 36-42, (2017); 
Lindmeier B., Ehrenberg K., In manchen Momenten wünsch ich mir auch, dass sie gar nicht da sind“–Schulassistenz aus der Perspektive von Mitschülerinnen und Mitschülern, Schulbegleitung in der inklusiven Schule. Grundlagen und Praxishilfen [School assistants in inclusive schools. Basics and practical aids, pp. 137-149, (2017); 
Little C., Ria de Leeuw R., Andriana E., Zanuttini J., Evans D., Social Inclusion through the Eyes of the Student: Perspectives from Students with Disabilities on Friendship and Acceptance, International Journal of Disability, Development and Education, (2020); 
Meyer K., Multiprofessionalität in der inklusiven Schule: Eine empirische Studie zur Kooperation von Lehrkräften und Schulbegleiter/innen [Multiprofessionality in inclusive schools: An empirical study on the cooperation of teachers and assistants] (Göttinger Schulbegleitungsstudie GötS), (2017); 
Meyer K., Nonte S., Willems A., Mittendrin Und Doch Außen Vor? Eine Empirische Studie Zur Multiprofessionellen Kooperation Aus Sicht von Schulbegleiter/innen [In the Middle and yet on the Outside? an Empirical Study on Multiprofessional Cooperation from the Perspective of Assistants], Schulbegleitung in der inklusiven Schule. Grundlagen und Praxishilfen, pp. 74-89, (2017); 
Nilholm C., Goransson K., What Is Meant by Inclusion? an Analysis of European and North American Journal Articles with High Impact, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 32, 3, pp. 437-451, (2017); 
Paju B., Kajamaa A., Pirttimaa R., Kontu E., Collaboration for Inclusive Practices: Teaching Staff Perspectives from Finland, Scandinavian Journal of Educational Research, 66, 3, pp. 427-440, (2022); 
Paulsrud D., Nilholm C., Teaching for Inclusion–A Review of Research on the Cooperation between Regular Teachers and Special Educators in the Work with Students in Need of Special Support, International Journal of Inclusive Education, (2020); 
Schindler F., Die Entwicklung des Lern- und Sozialverhaltens bei Schülerinnen und Schülern mit Schulassistenz: Eine längsschnittliche Studie. Vierteljahresschrift für Heilpädagogik und ihre Nachbargebiete [The development of learning and social behaviour in pupils with school assistance: A longitudinal study], VHNplus, 88, pp. 1-25, (2019); 
Schulze K., Schulbegleitung Im Spannungsfeld von Nähe Und Distanz - Eine Einzelfallanalyse Zum Umgang Mit Paradoxen Strukturen Pädagogischen Handelns, Schulbegleitung in der Inklusiven Schule. Grundlagen Und Praxishilfen. [School Assistants in Inclusive School. Basics and Practical Advices, pp. 97-106, (2017); 
Sheehey P., Wells J., Ogata V., Paraeducators’ Perceptions and Experiences Working with Diverse Families, Rural Special Education Quarterly, 1, 37, pp. 44-51, (2018); 
United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities [online, (2006); 
Webster R., Blatchford P., Bassett P., Brown P., Martin C., Russell A., Double Standards and First Principles: Framing Teaching Assistant Support for Pupils with Special Educational Needs, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 25, 4, pp. 319-336, (2010); 
Webster R., Bosanquet P., Franklin S., Parker M., Maximising the Impact of Teaching Assistants in Primary Schools, (2021)#FRF#
