#ITI#Paradoxes of using psychiatric diagnoses as organising principles for special educational support#FTI#
#IRE#In educational systems around the world, there is a long tradition of using psychiatric diagnoses when providing support in the special educational field. For instance, many countries have special schools and special classes for students with psychiatric diagnoses such as Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Autism spectrum disorder and general learning disabilities. This case study draws on data from Denmark and investigates how this organising principle is currently being challenged. The study shows that a main challenge to the widespread use of diagnoses is a shift in how the psychiatric system diagnoses students. Factors affecting the current situation are that a) an increasing proportion of students receive more than one diagnosis, and b) children with social problems are more likely to be diagnosed with a psychiatric condition as well. The outcome is that the institutional tradition of distinguishing between support to be provided for different diagnoses comes under pressure, and a paradoxical situation occurs where the growing complexity of children’s psychiatric diagnoses leads to practices where more differentiated special needs are taught within the same classrooms. The situation has led the Danish school system to search for alternative ways of organising support for students. The study investigates these new emerging methods of providing support#FRE#
#IPC#Diagnoses; school organisation; special educational needs#FPC#
#IRF#Ainscow M., Slee R., Best M., Editorial: “The Salamanca Statement: 25 Years on, International Journal of Inclusive Education, 23, 7-8, pp. 671-676, (2019); 
Andreasen A.G., Rangvid B.S., Lindeberg N.H., Støtte, støttebehov og elevresultater–Delrapport 1. Inkluderende læringsmiljøer og specialpædagogisk bistand [Support, Special Needs and Student’s Results–Report No 1. Inclusive Learning Environments and Special Educational Support, (2022); 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM-5, (2023); 
Social- Og Indenrigsministeriets Benchmarkingenhed. Hovedrapport. Udviklingstendenser I Forhold Til Børn Og Unge Med Psykiatriske Diagnoser [Benchmarking Unit of the Ministry of the Interior and Social Affairs: Main Report, Tendencies in Relation to Children and Youths with Psychiatric Diagnoses, (2019); 
Boike P., “Flere diagnoser og hvad så?” [More Diagnoses and So What?], Folkeskolen.dk, (2022); 
Bowker G.C., Star S.L., Sorting Things Out. Classification and its Consequences, (1998); 
Dalgas J., “Derfor forsøger forældre at få stillet diagnoser til deres børn” [Here Is the Reason Why Parents Seek to Have Their Children Diagnosed], Berlingske.dk, (2017); 
Elever med psykiatriske diagnoser og deres afgangsprøve i 9. klasse [Students with Psychiatric Diagnoses and Their Grade 9 School Exams, (2021); 
Douglas M., How Institutions Think, (1986); 
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the Protection of Natural Persons with Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of Such Data, and Repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (2016); 
Gerber M.M., A History of Special Education, Chap. 1 in Handbook of Special Education, pp. 3-15, (2011); 
Grossen M., Florez D., Lauvergeon S., Dealing with Clients’ Diversity in Test Situations: Client Categorizations in Psychologists’ Accounts of Their Practices, International Journal of Educational Research, 63, pp. 15-25, (2014); 
Hacking I., Kinds of People: Moving Targets, British Academy Lecture, (2006); 
Jerking A., “Markant flere elever med diagnoser i folkeskolen” [Marked Rise in the Number of Students with Diagnoses in Public Schools], Skolemonitor.dk, (2018); 
Kvale S., Brinkmann S., Det kvalitative forskningsinterview som håndværk [The Qualitative Research Interview as Craftmanship, (2015); 
Lindeberg N.H., Tegtmejer T., Iversen K., Andreasen A.G., Ibsen J.T., Rangvid B.S., Bjornholt B., Ruge M., Ellermann K.G., Styring, organisering og faglig praksis–Delrapport 2. Inkluderende læringsmiljøer og specialpædagogisk bistand, Steering, Organisation and Professional Support–Report No 2. Inclusive Learning Environments and Special Educational Support, (2022); 
Makitalo A., Categorisation, Analysing Social Work Communication. Discourse in Practice, 3, pp. 25-43, (2014); 
Momentum, Kun 4 ud af 10 elever med psykiatrisk diagnose får en ungdomsuddannelse [Only Four out of Ten Students with a Psychiatric Diagnosis Receive Secondary Education, (2021); 
Mortensen N.P., Andreasen A.G., Tegtmejer T., Uddannelsesresultater og –mønstre for børn og unge med funktionsnedsættelser [Educational results and patterns for children and young people with functional impairments, (2020); 
Prottas J.M., People-Processing: The Street-Level Bureaucrat in Public Service Bureaucracies, (1979); 
Smith D.E., Institutional Ethnography. A Sociology for People, (2005); 
Tegtmejer T., Hjorne E., Saljo R., Diagnosing ADHD in Danish Primary School Children. A Case Study of the Institutional Categorization of Emotional and Behavioural Difficulties, Emotional & Behavioural Difficulties, 23, 2, pp. 127-140, (2018); 
Tegtmejer T., Hjorne E., Saljo R., Diagnoses and Special Educational Support. A Study of Institutional Decision-Making of Provision of Special Educational Support for Children at School, European Journal of Special Needs Education, 38, 3, pp. 363-377, (2022); 
Tegtmejer T., Jorgensen H.C.Q., In search of a middle ground. A case study of special educational support in between ordinary school and segregated settings in Denmark, International Journal of Inclusive Education, pp. 1-15, (2022); 
The ICD-10 Classification of Mental and Behavioural Disorders. Clinical Descriptions and Diagnostic Guidelines, (2023)#FRF#
