#ITI#Examining Science Education in ChatGPT: An Exploratory Study of Generative Artificial Intelligence#FTI#
#IRE# The advent of generative artificial intelligence (AI) offers transformative potential in the field of education. The study explores three main areas: (1) How did ChatGPT answer questions related to science education? (2) What are some ways educators could utilise ChatGPT in their science pedagogy? and (3) How has ChatGPT been utilised in this study, and what are my reflections about its use as a research tool? This exploratory research applies a self-study methodology to investigate the technology. Impressively, ChatGPT’s output often aligned with key themes in the research. However, as it currently stands, ChatGPT runs the risk of positioning itself as the ultimate epistemic authority, where a single truth is assumed without a proper grounding in evidence or presented with sufficient qualifications. Key ethical concerns associated with AI include its potential environmental impact, issues related to content moderation, and the risk of copyright infringement. It is important for educators to model responsible use of ChatGPT, prioritise critical thinking, and be clear about expectations. ChatGPT is likely to be a useful tool for educators designing science units, rubrics, and quizzes. Educators should critically evaluate any AI-generated resource and adapt it to their specific teaching contexts. ChatGPT was used as a research tool for assistance with editing and to experiment with making the research narrative clearer. The intention of the paper is to act as a catalyst for a broader conversation about the use of generative AI in science education#FRE#
#IPC# ChatGPT; Digital technologies; Generative artificial intelligence and science education; Large language models#FPC#
#IRF# Boudreau C., I asked ChatGPT about its carbon footprint and it didn’t have a real answer, Insider, (2023); 
Buchanan J., ChatGPT cites economics papers that do not exist, Economist Writing Every Day, (2023); 
Bybee R.W., Learning science and the science of learning: Science educators’ essay collection, NSTA Press., (2002); 
Celik I., Towards Intelligent-TPACK: An empirical study on teachers’ professional knowledge to ethically integrate artificial intelligence (AI)-based tools into education, Computers in Human Behavior, 138, (2023); 
Cope B., Kalantzis M., Searsmith D., Artificial intelligence for education: Knowledge and its assessment in AI-enabled learning ecologies, Educational Philosophy and Theory, 53, 12, pp. 1229-1245, (2021); 
Du X., Wong B., Science career aspiration and science capital in China and UK: A comparative study using PISA data, International Journal of Science Education, pp. 1-20, (2019); 
Gleason N., Chatgpt and the Rise of AI Writers: How Should Higher Education Respond? Times Higher Education, (2022); 
Gorard S., See B., The impact of socio-economic status on participation and attainment in science, Studies in Science Education, 45, 1, pp. 93-129, (2009); 
Hamilton M.L., Smith L., Worthington K., Fitting the methodology with the research: An exploration of narrative, self-study and auto-ethnography, Studying Teacher Education, 4, 1, pp. 17-28, (2009); 
Hackling M.W., Prain V., Primary Connections– Stage 2 Trial: Research Report, A Research Report Prepared for the Australian Academy of Science, (2005); 
Kang J., Keinonen T., The effect of student-centered approaches on students’ interest and achievement in science: Relevant topic-based, open and guided inquiry-based, and discussion-based approaches, Research in Science Education, 48, 4, pp. 865-885, (2017); 
Karim R., ChatGPT: Old AI problems in a new guise, new problems in disguise, Monash Lens, (2023); 
Kirschner P.A., Sweller J., Clark R.E., Why minimal guidance during instruction does not work: An analysis of the failure of constructivist, discovery, problem-based, experiential, and inquiry-based teaching, Educational Psychologist, 41, 2, pp. 75-86, (2006); 
Tools such as ChatGPT threaten transparent science; here are our ground rules for their use, Nature, (2023); 
ChatGPT: Optimizing language models for dialogue, Openai., (2023); 
Openai, (2023); 
Pavlik J.V., Collaborating with ChatGPT: Considering the implications of generative artificial intelligence for journalism and media education, Journalism & Mass Communication Educator, (2023); 
Perrigo B., Exclusive: The $2 per hour workers who made ChatGPT safer, Time, (2023); 
Rannikmae M., Holbrook J., Soobard R., Social constructivism—Jerome Bruner, Science education in theory and practice: An introductory guide to learning theory, pp. 259-275, (2020); 
Scharth M., The Chatgpt Chatbot is Blowing People Away with Its Writing Skills. the University of Sydney, (2022); 
Shubhendu S., & Vijay, (2013); 
Stockman C., Nottingham E., Surveillance capitalism in schools: What’s the problem?, Digital Culture & Education, 14, 1, pp. 1-15, (2022); 
ChatGPT listed as author on research papers: Many scientists disapprove, Nature, (2023); 
Wang P., On defining artificial intelligence, Journal of Artificial General Intelligence, 11, 2, (2019); 
Wu C.J., Raghavendra R., Gupta U., Acun B., Ardalani N., Maeng K., Hazelwood K., Sustainable AI: Environmental implications, challenges and opportunities, Proceedings of Machine Learning and Systems, 4, pp. 795-813, (2022); 
Yang W., Artificial intelligence education for young children: Why, what, and how in curriculum design and implementation, Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 3, (2022); 
Zhai X., Chatgpt User Experience: Implications for Education, (2022)#FRF#
