#ITI#Profitability of agro-forestry based soil fertility management technologies: The case of small holder food production in Western Kenya#FTI#
#IRE#Persistent food insecurity accompanied by low and declining farm household incomes are a common feature of many small holder maize and bean producers in western Kenya. This has been largely attributed to soil nutrient depletion, among other factors. One way of addressing soil fertility problems in many maize-based cropping systems is the use of agro-forestry based technologies. We carried out a survey in western Kenya (Vihiga and Siaya districts) aimed at analyzing the financial and social profitability of use of agroforestry based (improved tree fallows) and other soil fertility management technologies among smallholder farmers. The Policy Analysis Matrix (PAM) was used to determine the financial and social profitability of different production systems, which were categorized on the basis of the technology used to address soil fertility. Farm budgets were first prepared and in turn used to construct the PAMs for six production systems namely: maize-bean intercrop without any soil fertility management inputs; maize-bean intercrop with chemical fertilizers only; maize-bean intercrop with a combination of chemical fertilizers and improved fallows; maize-bean intercrop with improved fallows only; maize-bean intercrop with a combination of improved fallows and rock phosphate; and maize-bean intercrop with Farm Yard Manure (FYM) only. Results revealed that use of chemical fertilizers with improved fallows was the most profitable technology and thus the study recommended that farmers be encouraged to intensify the use of chemical fertilizers. To make chemical fertilizers more accessible to farmers, the study also recommended that good linkages be made between farmers and micro credit institutions so that small scale farmers are not actually biased against due to lack of collateral when credit is being advanced to clients. © 2006 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.#FRE#
#IPC#Financial profitability; Food insecurity; Food production; Improved fallows; Social profitability; Soil nutrient depletion#FPC#
#IRF#Adesina A., Coulibaly O.N., Policy and competitiveness of agro-forestry based technologies for maize-production in Cameroon": An application of Policy Analysis Matrix, Agricult Econ, 19, pp. 1-13, (1998); 
Franzel S., Socioeconomic factors affecting the adoption potential of improved tree fallows in Africa, Agro Forest Syst, 47, pp. 305-321, (1999); 
Gittinger J.P., Economic Analysis of Agricultural Projects, (1982); 
Gonzales L.A., Kasryno F., Perez N.D., Rosegrant M.W., Economic Incentives and Comparative Advantage in Indonesian Food Crop Production, (1993); 
Hassan R.M., Murithi F., Kamau G., Determinants of fertilizer use and the gap between farmers yields and potential yields in Kenya, Maize Technology Development and Transfer, a GIS Application for Research Planning in Kenya, pp. 175-192, (1998); 
Heisey P.A., Mwangi W., Fertilizer Use and Maize Production in Sub-saharan Africa, (1995); 
Jama B.A., Niang I.A., Amadalo B., De Wolf J., Rao M.R., Buresh R.J., The potential of improved fallows to improve and conserve the fertility of nutrient depleted soils of western Kenya, Proceedings of the 6th Biennial KARI Scientific Conference (KARI), pp. 133-144, (1999); 
Kamanga B.C.G., Kanysma-Phiri G.Y., Minae S., Intercropping perennial legumes for green manure additions to maize in southern Malawi, Afr Crop Sci J, 7, 4, pp. 355-365, (1999); 
Kwesiga F.R., Franzel S., Place F., Phiri D., Simwanza C.P., Sesbania sesban improved fallows in eastern Zambia, Agron J, 90, pp. 717-726, (1999); 
Kydd J., Pearce R., Michael S., Economic analysis of commodity systems: Extending the policy analysis matrix to account for environmental effects and transaction costs, Agricult Syst, 55, 2, pp. 323-345, (1997); 
Monke A.E., Pearson R.S., The Policy Analysis Matrix for Agricultural Development, (1989); 
Morris M.L., Guideline on Determining the Comparative Advantage through DRC (Domestic Resource Cost) Analysis, (1989); 
Nekesa P., Maritim H.K., Okalebo J.R., Womer P.L., Economic analysis of maize-bean production using a soil fertility replenishment product (PREP-PAC) in Western Kenya, Afr Crop Sci J, 7, 4, pp. 585-590, (1999); 
Nyirongo C.V., Mughogho S.K., Kumwenda S.D., Soil Fertility studies with compost and igneous phosphate rock amendments in Malawi, Afr Crop Sci J, 7, 4, pp. 415-422, (1999); 
Place F., Wangila J., Rommelse R., De Wolf J., Economics of Agro-forestry Technologies in the Pilot Project Area in Western Kenya, (2000); 
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for the Period 2002-2003, (2002); 
Rommelse R., Economic Assessment of Biomass Transfer and Improved Fallow Trials in Western Kenya, (2000); 
Sanchez P.A., Jama B.A., Soil Fertility Replenishment Takes off in East and Southern Africa, (2000); 
African Development Indicators, (1996)#FRF#
