#ITI#A conceptual framework for determining economically optimal fertiliser use in oil palm plantations with factorial fertiliser trials#FTI#
#IRE#The theory, and the statistics and mathematics of using factorial fertiliser trials to assist in making fertiliser recommendations for neighbouring commercial plantings is presented as a conceptual framework and in a format for practical application. As an example, the yield and leaf nutrient levels from a typical factorial fertiliser rate trial (nitrogen by potassium) were modelled using multiple linear regression and the resulting response surfaces used to determine the maximum agronomic yield and optimum economic yield and to calculate the requirement for 'basal' fertiliser. Leaf nutrient data in both the trial and commercial plantings was used to estimate the requirement for 'corrective' fertiliser, where necessary, to increase the leaf nutrient levels to the target leaf nutrient level for maximum yield. All the mathematics required can be incorporated into a spreadsheet calculator that uses costs (e.g. fertiliser) and prices (e.g. oil) to calculate optimum economic fertiliser application rates. Problems with extrapolating the results of fertiliser trials to commercial plantings can be overcome by matching each trial with a corresponding commercial planting domain. © 2008 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.#FRE#
#IPC#Application rate; Economic optimum; Fertiliser nitrogen; Fertiliser potassium; Fertiliser response; Oil palm; Regression models#FPC#
#IRF#Anderson R.L., Nelson L.A., A family of models involving intersecting straight lines and concomitant experimental designs useful in evaluating response to fertilizer nutrients, Biometrics, 31, pp. 303-318, (1975); 
Campbell L.C., Rengel Z., Managing soil fertility decline, Nutrient Use in Crop Production, pp. 29-52, (1998); 
Corley R.H.V., Tinker P.B., The Oil Palm, (2003); 
Foster H.L., Fairhurst T., Hardter R., Assessment of oil palm fertiliser requirements, Oil Palm: Management for Large and Sustainable Yields, pp. 231-257, (2003); 
Hartley C.W.S., The Oil Palm, (1988); 
Kraip J., Webb M.J., Monitoring of Oil Palm (Elaeis Guineensis Jacq.) Leaf Nutrient Variations to Help Interpret Routine Leaf Sampling Results: PNG OPRA Trial 136, (2005); 
Melling L., Goh K.J., Hatano R., Short-term effect of urea on CH4 flux under the oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) on tropical peat-land in Sarawak, Malaysia, Soil Sci Plant Nutr, 52, pp. 788-792, (2006); 
Rankine I.R., Fairhurst T.H., Field Handbook-oil Palm Series, Vol 3, (1999); 
Smith F.W., Loneragan J.F., Reuter D.J., Robinson J.B., Interpretation of plant analysis: Concepts and principles, Plant Analysis: An Interpretation Manual, pp. 3-33, (1997); 
Verdooren R., Fairhurst T., Hardter R., Design and analysis of fertiliser experiments, Oil Palm: Management for Large and Sustainable Yields, pp. 259-278, (2003); 
Wilkie A.S., Foster H.L., Oil palm response to fertilisers in Papua New Guinea, PORIM International Palm Oil Development Conference, pp. 395-405, (1989)#FRF#
