#ITI#Productivity of yam-based systems with herbaceous legumes and short fallows in the Guinea-Sudan transition zone of Benin#FTI#
#IRE#The principal driving force in agricultural research is to increase the yield of food crops. For farming to remain productive, it will be necessary to replenish the nutrients removed or lost from the soil. The objective of this study was to determine the impact of yam-based systems on soil productivity (dry matter production, nutrients recycled or removed, profitability and soil fertility changes). We compared smallholders' traditional systems (1-year fallow of Andropogonon gayanus -yam rotation; maize-yam rotation) with yam-based systems with legumes (intercropped Aeschynomene histrix with maize-yam rotation; intercropped Mucuna pruriens with maize-yam rotation). The production of dry matter (tubers, shoots), nutrients removed or recycled, and soil properties were significantly improved on yam-based systems with legumes in comparison with traditional systems. Year × Treatment interactions influenced significantly the tuber dry matter production. Site × Treatment and Treatment × Farmer interactions affected significantly nutrients removed or recycled. The amount of nutrients recycled or removed was dependent on the dry matter production that, in turn, depended on soil fertility, rainfall and farmers' effect. Yam-based systems with legumes brought a higher present value than traditional systems in the first 4 years and appeared attractive for land, labour and cash productivities. © 2011 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.#FRE#
#IPC#Crop rotation; Dioscorea rotundata; Herbaceous legumes; Net present value; Nutrient recycling#FPC#
#IRF#Adjei-Nsiah S., Kuyper T.W., Leeuwis C., Abekoe M.K., Giller KE (2007) Evaluating sustainable and profitable cropping sequences with cassava and four legume crops: effects on soil fertility and maize yields in the forest/savannah transitional agro-ecological zone of Ghana, Field Crop Res, 103, pp. 87-97, (2007); 
Agossou V., Mouinou I., Caractérisation Des Sols Des Sites De Recherche développement Du CRA-Centre: Classification Dans La Base De référence Mondiale Et Actualisation De Leur Niveau De dégradation, (2002); 
Becker M., Johnson D.E., Segda Z.J., The role of legume fallows in intensified upland rice-based systems of West Africa, Cover crops in West Africa contributing to sustainable agriculture, pp. 85-108, (1999); 
Birang M., Soil macrofauna community strucuture along a gradient of land use intensification in the humid forest zone of southern Cameroon, (2004); 
Carsky R.J., Tarawali S.A., Becker M., Chicoye D., Tian G., Sauplaga N., M. pruriens-herbaceous cover legume with potential for multiple use', IITA. Research Crop. Management, Research Monograph, 2, (1998); 
Carsky R.J., Wolo N., Manyong V.M., Tian G., Understanding soil factors limiting the potential yield of yam (Dioscorea spp.), Proceedings of the 7th triennal symposium of the international society for tropical root crops, pp. 198-209, (2001); 
Cornet D., Vernier P., Amadji F., Asiedu R., Integration of yam in cover crop based cropping system: constraints and potential, Proceedings of the 14th triennial symposium of the international society for tropical root crops (ISTRC), (2006); 
Degras L., L'igname, plante à tubercule tropicale, Techniques agricoles et productions tropicales, (1986); 
Doumbia S., Revue de la bibliographie sur le thème de la sédentarisation de la culture de l'igname en Afrique de l'Ouest à travers le cas du Bénin' FAO/MAEP/INRAB, (2005); 
FAOSTAT Agriculture Data, (2003); 
(2009); 
Franzen H., Lal R., Ehlers W., Tillage and mulching effects on physical properties of a tropical Alfisol, Soil Tillage Res, 28, pp. 329-346, (1994); 
Hulugalle N.R., Lal R., Opara-Nadi O.A., Effect of tillage system and mulch on soil properties and growth of yam (Dioscorea rotundata) and cocoyam (Xanthosoma sagittifolium) on an Ultisol, J Root Tuber Crop, 1-2, pp. 9-22, (1985); 
Ibewiro B., Sanginga N., Vanlauwe B., Merckx R., Nitrogen contributions from decomposing cover crop residues to maize in a tropical derived savanna, Nutr Cycl Agroecosyst, 57, pp. 131-140, (2000); 
Igue A.M., The use of the soil database for land evaluation procedures-case study of central Benin, (2000); 
Maliki R., Sedentary yam-based cropping systems and sustainable natural resources management in the central part of Benin: Participatory development, constraints, adoption and diffusion of technologies, (2006); 
Olarinde L.O., Performance assessment of land enhancing technologies: an economic analysis for food crop farmers in Southwestern Nigeria, Prosperity and poverty in a globalised world challenges for agricultural research, (2006); 
Onwueme I.C., Haverkort J.A., Modelling growth and productivity of yams (Dioscorea spp): prospects and problems, Agric Syst, 36, pp. 351-367, (1991); 
O'Sullivan J.N., Ernest J., Yam Nutrition and Soil Fertility Management in the Pacific, (2008); 
Saidou A., Converging strategies by farmers and scientist to improve soil fertility and enhance crop production in Benin, (2006); 
Salako F.K., Tian G., Management of a degraded Alfisol for crop production in southwestern Nigeria: effects of fallow, mounding and nitrogen, J Sustain Agric, 22, 2, pp. 3-21, (2003); 
Sanginga N., Woomer P.L., Integrated Soil Fertility Management in Africa: Principles, Practices and Development Process, (2009); 
SAS User's Guide: Statistics, (1996); 
Stern N., Short executive summary, Stern review report on the economics of climate change, (2006); 
Vernier P., Dossou R.A., Adaptation of yam (Dioscorea spp) cultivation to changing environment and economic constraints in Benin, Africa, Proceedings of the 12th symposium of ISTRC. 2000, pp. 352-359, (2000); 
Vernier P., Dossou R.A., Atelier national sur le développement durable de la production et de la consommation de l'igname en Côte d'Ivoire, Agronomie africaine, 15, 4, pp. 187-196, (2003)#FRF#
