#ITI#Orthogonal polynomial models to describe yield response of rice to nitrogen and phosphorus at different levels of soil fertility#FTI#
#IRE#Yield responses of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv JD1187) to variable rates and combinations of fertilizer nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P), to available soil N and P, and to cation exchange capacity (CEC) were examined in 41 field trials. The trial sites were located in the rice-growing region of Hebei Province, Northern China, covering a diversity of soil fertility levels. Relationships between crop yields, fertilizer rates and soil nutrient supply were established using an orthogonal polynomial model. The optimum economic fertilizer rates at different levels of soil N and P supply were estimated by using fertilizer-yield response functions and soil properties for a particular site. A difference in trend coefficients, reflecting yield response to fertilizer, was observed, which was mainly dependent on variance of soil fertility across 41 experimental sites under the relatively consistent climate and farming practice. The results of correlation analysis showed that there was a positive correlation between trend coefficient T0 and yield without fertilizer (Y0) (r = 0.80**). Trend coefficient T1, the major effect of N fertilizer on yield, showed negative relationships with the quadratic transformation of alkali-hydrolysable N (Ns) and CEC (r = -0.60**). Trend coefficient T2, the major effect of P fertilizer on yield, had negative relationships with the logarithmically transformed data of soil NaHCO3-extractable P (Ps) (r = -0.57**). Trend coefficients T3, T4 and T5, representing linear interaction of N and P, and quadratic trend of N and P, respectively, showed no significant correlation with soil fertility variables. Yield responses to N and P fertilizers, optimum economic fertilizer rates and gross profit from fertilization decreased with increase in available soil N and P, and CEC. The model was validated in 19 field trials. The results suggest that the model developed in this study can reasonably predict optimum economic fertilizer rates through routine soil tests in the rice production region. The model can also be extrapolated to other regions and include other variable factors, provided that new relationships between yield response to fertilizer and site variables are established and incorporated into the model.#FRE#
#IPC#Fertilizer rate; Fertilizer-yield response; Orthogonal trend analysis; Rice (Oryza sativa L.); Soil nutrients#FPC#
#IRF#Black C.A., Methods of Soil Analysis. Part 2. Chemical and Microbiological Properties, (1965); 
Colwell J.D., Estimating Fertilizer Requirements: A Quantitative Approach, (1994); 
Colwell J.D., Morton R., Development and evaluation of general or transfer models of relationships between wheat yields and fertilizer rates in southern Australia, Austr. J. Soil Res., 22, pp. 191-205, (1984); 
Foth H.D., Ellis B.G., Soil Fertility, (1996); 
Li R.G., Fertilizer-Yield Response Functions, (1987); 
Li R.G., Fan J.Z., Wang K.W., Shen J., The development of fertilization models for rice, Present and Future of Soil Sciences in China, pp. 118-121, (1991); 
Shen J., Li R., Development of large-area economic fertilization models for rice by orthogonal trend analysis, China Plant Nutr. Fertil. Sci., 5, pp. 258-262, (1999); 
Shi R., Soil and Agricultural Chemistry Analysis, (1986); 
Westerman R.L., Soil Testing and Plant Analysis. 3rd Edn., (1990); 
Zellner A., An efficient method of estimating seemingly unrelated regressions and test for aggregation bias, J. Am. Stat. Assoc., 57, pp. 348-368, (1962)#FRF#
