#ITI#Isotopic assessment of soil phosphorus fertility and evaluation of rock phosphates as phosphorus sources for plants in subtropical China#FTI#
#IRE#Soil phosphorus (P) deficiency is a major factor limiting crop productivity in many tropical and subtropical soils. Due to the acidic nature of these soils, rock phosphate (RP)-based P fertilizers that are cheaper than manufactured water-soluble P fertilizers can be an attractive alternative under certain conditions. Assessment of the efficacy of these alternative P fertilizers and a rational management of local P resources for sustainable agricultural production require an understanding of the dynamics of P in the soil-plant system and the interactions of various P sources in soils and monitoring of soil available P levels. The present work was conducted to test the applicability of the 32P isotopic kinetic method to assess the soil P fertility status and evaluate the agronomic effectiveness of local rock phosphates in subtropical China. A series of experiments was carried out in the laboratory, greenhouse and field conditions with the following specific objectives: (a) to evaluate the suitability of this isotopic kinetic method in evaluating soil P fertility in 32 soil samples collected across southern China, (b) to test and further develop chemical extraction methods for routine soil P testing, (c) to monitor the dissolution kinetics of local low to medium grade rock phosphate sources and their effect on soil properties and (d) to evaluate their agronomic effectiveness in greenhouse and field experiments. Since most of the studied soils had very low concentrations of soluble P and high P-fixing capacities, the isotopic kinetic method was found unsuitable for evaluating soil P fertility and to predict plant P uptake. In contrast, the proposed chemical extraction method (NaHCO3-NH4F) predicted very well plant P uptake, suggesting that this extraction method can be routinely used to evaluate soil bioavailable P in similar soils in subtropical China. From the incubation study, it was found that although the local low to medium grade RPs were inferior to the reactive NCPR in increasing soil available P levels, they have the potential to improve soil chemical properties. Field experiments indeed demonstrated that the medium grade Jinxiang RP significantly increased crop yield, suggesting that local low to medium grade RPs could be used as P sources to provide P to plants and also to improve soil chemical properties. Overall, these results provide important information for a rational management of P resources for sustainable agriculture in subtropical China.#FRE#
#IPC#Available P; Isotope techniques; Phosphate fertilizers; Rock phosphate; Soil P testing#FPC#
#IRF#Bolan N.S., Hedley M.J., Dissolution of phosphate rocks in soils. 1. Evaluation of extraction methods for the measurement of phosphate rock dissolution, Fertil Res, 19, pp. 65-75, (1989); 
Bray R.H., Kurtz L.T., Determination of total, organic and available forms of phosphorus in soils, Soil Sci., 59, pp. 39-45, (1945); 
Chien S.H., Menon R.G., Factors affecting the agronomic effectiveness of phosphate rock for direct application, Fertil Res, 41, pp. 197-209, (1995); 
Fardeau J.C., Morel C., Jappe J., Cinètique d'èchange des ions phosphate dans les systèmes sol-solution. Vèrification experimentale de l'èquation thèorique, CR Acad Sci Paris, 300, SERIE III, pp. 371-376, (1985); 
Fardeau J.C., Guiraud G., Marol C., Bioavailable soil P as main key for sustainable agriculture: Its functional model determined using isotopic tracers, Nuclear Techniques for Sustainable Agriculture and Environmental Preservation. Proc. Int. Symp.,Vienna, pp. 131-144, (1995); 
Fixen P.E., Grove J.H., Testing soils for phosphorus, Soil Testing and Plant Analysis, 3rd Edn., pp. 141-180, (1990); 
Frossard E., Feller C., Tiessen H., Stewart J.W.B., Fardeau J.C., Morel J.L., Can an isotope method allow for the determination of the phosphorus-fixing capacity of soils, Commun Soil Sci Plant Anal, 24, pp. 367-377, (1993); 
Hammond L.L., Chien S.H., Mokwunye A.U., Agronomic value of unacidulated and partially acidulated phosphate rocks indigenous to the tropics, Adv Agron, 40, pp. 89-140, (1986); 
Tracer Manual on Crops and Soils. Technical Report Series No. 171, (1976); 
Soil Physical and Chemical Analysis, (1978); 
Mehlich A., Mehlich 3 soil test extractant: A modification of Mehlich 2 extractant, Commun Soil Sci Plant Anal, 15, pp. 1409-1416, (1984); 
Morel C., Fardeau J.C., Phosphorus bioavailability of fertilizers: A predictive laboratory method for its evaluation, Fertil Res, 28, pp. 1-9, (1991); 
Murphy J., Riley J.P., A modified single solution method for the determination of phosphate in natural waters, Anal Chim Acta, pp. 31-36, (1962); 
Olsen S.R., Cole C.V., Watanabe F.S., Dean L.A., Estimation of available phosphorus in soils by extraction with sodium bicarbonate, USDA Circ. 939, (1954); 
Truong B., Montange D., The African experience with phosphate rock, including Djebel Onk, and case studies in Brazil and Vietnam, Nutrient Management for Sustainable Crop Production in Asia, pp. 133-148, (1998); 
Xiong L.M., Zhou Z.G., Lu R.K., Enhanced plant growth by uniform placement of superphosphate with rock phosphate in acidic soils, Commun Soil Sci Plant Anal, 27, pp. 2837-2850, (1996); 
Zapata F., Isotope techniques in soil fertility and plant nutrition studies, Use of Nuclear Techniques in Studies of Soil Plant Relationships Training Course Series No. 2, pp. 61-127, (1990); 
Zapata F., Axmann H., <sup>32</sup>P isotopic techniques for evaluating the agronomic effectiveness of rock phosphate materials, Fertil Res, 41, pp. 189-185, (1995)#FRF#
