#ITI#Yield analysis of chickpea (Cicer arietinum) with mustard (brassaca juncea) intercropping system as influenced by weed management practices#FTI#
#IRE#Background: Intercropping is the more profitable cropping system in Agriculture for marginal hold farmers. In this system risk cover in abiotic stress and farmers have gain one crop mostly who are using herbicide to control weeds. Crops raise fast and with controlled weeds. Scientific approach of intercropping increases the productivity per unit area and per unit time under a situation where two crops are grown in a certain row proportion. The selection of compatible crops is one of the important considerations, in deciding economically viable and feasible intercropping system. Chickpea with mustard is a prominent intercropping system in Indian subcontinent. The majority of the farmers adopt this system under recourse constraint conditions. Since Chickpea is a poor competitor for weeds because of its slow growth and limited leaf area development at early stages of crops growth and establishment. Methods: An experiment was conducted at College of Agriculture Farm Gwalior during Rabi season of 2011-12 and 2012-13. The experiment was laid out in Split-Plot Design with three replications. Eighteen treatment combinations comprising three intercropping systems, viz, chickpea (sole), mustard (sole) and chickpea with mustard were taken as main plot treatments and six weed management practices viz, weedy-check, weed free, fluchloralin@ 1.0kg/ha pre-plant incorporation (PPI), pendimethalin @ 1 kg/ha as pre-emergene, (PE), Isoproturon 0.75 kg/ha as post emergence (POE) and quizalofop-ethyl @50 ml/ha (PoE) as sub plot treatments. The recommended dose of fertilizer in chickpea 18 kg/ha of nitrogen and 46 kg/ha of P2 O5 were applied with equal distribution to both the crops through 100 kg /ha diammonium phosphate as basal application at the time of sowing in rows below the seed. A seed rate of 70 kg and 5 kg/ ha for chickpea and mustard was used in their sole crops respectively. Result: Chickpea with mustard intercropping system proved to be the most promising system which obtained more net returns and benefit: cost ratio. So for realizing higher net returns and benefit: cost ratio, chickpea with mustard may be recommended to farmers who are interested in taking both the crops instead of their pure stands as it proved to be economically better and feasible in generating more monetary benefits by spending fewer amounts for their better lively hood security as well as land use efficiency. © 2021, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Chickpea; Intercropping; Mustard; Weed management#FPC#
#IRF#Arya R.L., Integrated weed management in chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) + mustard (Brassica juncea) intercropping system under rainfed conditions, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 49, 2, pp. 98-100, (2004); 
Ghanbari A., Dahmardeh M., Siahsar B.D., Ramroudi M., Effect of maize (Zea mays L.)-cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) intercropping on light distribution, soil temperature and soil moisture in and environment, Journal of Food and Agronomy Environment, 8, pp. 102-108, (2010); 
Kaushik S., Rai A., Sirothia P., Sharma A., Shukla A., Growth yield and economics of rainfed chickpea (Cicer arietinum) as influenced by integrated weed management, Indian Journal of Natural Products and Resources, 5, 3, pp. 282-285, (2014); 
Kour R., Sharna B., Kumar A., Nandan B., Kaur P., Effect of weed management on chickpea (Cicer arietinum) + Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) intercropping system under irrigated conditions of Jammu region, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 59, 2, pp. 242-246, (2014); 
Kour R., Sharma B.C., Kumar A., Sharma N., Yield analysis of chickpea (Cicer arietinum) intercropping system through computation of intercropping indices, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 60, 3, pp. 381-385, (2015); 
Poonia T.C., Pithia M.S., Pre-and post-emergence herbicides for weed management in chickpea, Indian Journal of Weed Science, 45, 3, pp. 223-225, (2013); 
Singh V., Singh G., Pandey V.K., Kumar M., Singh A., Performance of chickpea-mustard intercropping on yield and economics of chickpea and mustard crop under different fertility management and various row combinations, Int. J. Curr. Microbiol. App. Sci, 8, 1, pp. 236-249, (2019); 
Tripathi A.K., Kumar A., Nath S., Production potential and monetary advantage of winter maize (Zea mays) based intercropping system under irrigated condition in Central Uttar Pradesh, Indian Journal of Agriculture Science, 80, 2, pp. 125-128, (2010); 
Tripathi H.N., Chand S., Tripathi A.K., Biological and economical feasibility of chickpea (Cicerarietinum) + mustard (Brassica juncea) cropping system under varying levels of phosphorus, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 50, 1, pp. 31-34, (2005); 
Urdie I.L.L., Uwah D.F., Attoe E.E., Effect of intercropping and crop arrangement on yield and productivity of late season maize/soybean mixtures in the humid environment of South Southern Nigeria, Nigerian Journal of Agriculture Sciences, 4, 4, pp. 37-50, (2012); 
Vasave J.B., Ramani B.B., Prajapati P.J., Evaluation of Pre-and Post-emergence Herbicides in Gram (Cicer arietinum L.), Trends in Biosciences, 7, 11, pp. 1116-1119, (2014)#FRF#
