#ITI#Effects of super absorbent polymers and gibberellin on germination and growth of alfalfa#FTI#
#IRE#For proven effects of eco-friendly super absorbent polymer and gibberellin on germination and growth of alfalfa, taking the germination and growth test in the artificial climate box by adding the different amount of super absorbent polymer and gibberellin. Observed the germination potential, germination rate, shoot length, root length, fresh weight and dry weight, under the different experiment conditions. The test showed that the super absorbent polymer had a promoting effect on alfalfa. The property of slowly release water, water supply on super absorbent polymer could keep plants prolonging the survival rate in the case of insufficient water supply. It could improve the germination rate of the seed of alfalfa. Adding super absorbent polymer and gibberellin not only improved the survival rate, but also promoted the growth of root and shoot on alfalfa. © 2020, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Alfalfa; Gibberellin; Seed germination; Seedling growth; Super absorbent polymer#FPC#
#IRF#Fang S., Tao Y., Zhang Y., Kong F., Wang Y., Effects of metalaxyl enantiomers stress on root activity and leaf antioxidant enzyme activities in tobacco seedlings, Chirality, 30, 4, pp. 469-474, (2018); 
Guilherme M.R., Aouada F.A., Fajardo A.R., Martins A.F., Paulino A.T., Davi M.F.T., Rubira A.F., Muniz E.C., Super absorbent hydrogels based on polysaccharides for application in agriculture as soil conditioner and nutrient carrier: a review, European Polymer Journal, 72, pp. 365-385, (2015); 
Rabat N.E., Hashim S., Majid R.A., Effect of different monomers on water retention properties of slow release fertilizer hydrogel, Procedia Engineering, 148, pp. 201-207, (2016); 
Tenreira T., Lange M.J.P., Lange T., Bres C., Labadie M., Monfort A., Hernould M., Rothan C., Denoyes B., A Specific Gibberellin 20-Oxidase Dictates the FloweringRunnering Decision in Diploid Strawberry, Plant Cell, 29, pp. 2168-2182, (2017); 
Wang Z., Ning A., Xie P., Gao G., Xie L., Li X., Song A., Synthesis and swelling behaviors of carboxymethyl cellulose-based super absorbent resin hybridized with graphene oxide, Carbohydr Polym, 157, pp. 48-56, (2017)#FRF#
