#ITI#Residual Effect of Fertility Levels, Biofertilizer and Foliar Nutrition on Yield and Yield Attributes of Summer Blackgram (Vigna mungo L.) in Wheat-blackgram Cropping System under Subtropical Conditions in Jammu#FTI#
#IRE#Background: Blackgram (Vigna mungo L.), commonly known as urdbean, mash, black mapte and other names, is a popular short-season pulse crop farmed throughout India. This crop is extensively sown in conjunction with various cropping systems under residual moisture conditions after wheat harvest as summer crops under irrigated conditions and due to its high protein and carbohydrate content, as well as its short duration crop, it is suitable in summer crop grown between wheat and rice. Methods: Field experiments was carried out during two consecutive summer seasons of 2018-19 and 2019-20 to study residual effect of biofertilizer and foliar nutrition on plant height and yield attributes of summer blackgram (Vigna mungo) under different fertility levels at the Research Farm, Division of Agronomy, SKUAST-J, Chatha. The experiment was laid out in split-split plot design with three factors replicated thrice. Result: Maximize residual effect of nutrients on blackgram after raised wheat as a major crop among the fertility levels including biofertilizer and foliar application, recommended dose fertilizer achieved, growth parameters viz, yield attributing characters, number of pods/plants, number of grains /plants, 1000-grains weight, seed yield, stover yield and harvest index as compared to 75% of RDF. However, control recorded lowest values of all growth, yield attributing parameter and yield of blackgram crop. Whereas, soil application of biofertilizer consortium recorded higher plant height and yield attributing characters of blackgram in comparison to seed treatment with biofertilizer consortium applied in wheat as main crop. Among the foliar application of 2% of NPK (19:19:19) higher values of growth character, yield and yield attributing parameters of blackgram were recorded in foliar application of 2% NPK (19:19:19) at flowering stage as compared to tillering and tillering + flowering stages of wheat crop during both the years. Economics of blackgram in terms of net return and B:C ratio was influenced by residual effect of various applied in wheat crop and recorded higher in RDF fertility, soil application of biofertilizer consortium and foliar application of 2% NPK at flowering stage. © 2022, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Blackgram; Fertility levels; RDF; Residual effect; Wheat#FPC#
#IRF#Cochran W.G., Cox G.M., Experimental Designs, (1957); 
Dar S.B., Kanth R.H., Raja W., Bangroo S.A, Mir S.A., Performance of wheat in relation to sowing dates and nitrogen levels under rainfed conditions of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Microbiology and Applied Science, 7, pp. 2600-2608, (2018); 
Blackgram Outlook Report January to May (2021), (2021); 
Gawai P.P., Pawar V.S., Integrated nutrient management in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor)-chickpea (Cicer arietinum) cropping sequence under irrigated condi tions, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 51, pp. 17-20, (2006); 
Gangwar R.M., Pandove G., Brar S.K., Sekhon K.S., Kaur S., Kumar R., Integrated nutrient management in wheat by use of Azotobacter sp. and Streptomyces badius, International Journal of Agriculture Innovation and Research, 6, 4, pp. 2319-1473, (2018); 
Gudadhe N.N., Effect of integrated nutrient management system in cotton-chickpea cropping sequence under irrigated conditions, (2008); 
Imade S.R., Effect of integrated nitrogen management in rice-green gram cropping sequence under south Gujarat condition, (2014); 
Kachave R.R., Indulkar B.S., Vaidya P.H., Ingole A.J., Patil N.M., Effect of phosphorus and PSB on growth, yield and qual i ty of blackgr am (Vigna mungo L.) in Inceptisol, International Journal of Current Microbiology Applied Sciences, 7, pp. 3359-3365, (2018); 
Jat S., Dangi K.L., Kumhar B.L., Constraints in adoption of improved cultivation practices of blackgram, International Journal of Current Microbiology Applied Sciences, 6, pp. 1820-1824, (2017); 
Mahapatra A., Mi shra G.C., Bari k A.K., Integrated nutrient management in baby cornand its residual effect on green gram under rai nf ed ecosystem of Odi sha, International Journal of Agriculture, Environment and Biotechnology, 11, pp. 433-438, (2018); 
Meena S.R, Kumar A., Jat B.P., Meena B.P., Rana D.S., Idanani L.K., Influence of nutrient sources on growth, productivity and economics of baby corn (Zea mays)-potato (Solanum tuberosum)-mung bean (Vigna radiata) cropping system, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 57, pp. 217-221, (2012); 
Patel H.K., Sadhu A.C., Lakum Y.C., Suthar J.V., Response of integrated nutrient on wheat (Triticum aestivum) and its residual effect on succeeding crop, International Journal of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine, 2, pp. 47-52, (2014); 
Patel T.G., Khushvadan C.P., Patel V.N., Effect of integrated nutrient management on yield attributes and yield of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), International Journal of Chemical Studies, 5, pp. 1366-1369, (2017); 
Shanwad U.K., Aravind, Kumar B.N., Hulihalli U.K., Ashok M.R., Surwenshi M.R., Jalageri B.R., Integrated nutrient management (INM) in maize-bengal gram cropping system in Northern Karnataka, Research Journal of Agriculture Science, 1, pp. 252-254, (2010); 
Sindhi S.J., Effect of integrated nitrogen management in maize-green gram cropping sequence under south Gujarat condition, (2016); 
Sindhi S.J., Thanki J.D., Mansuri R.N., Desai L.J., Residual eff ect of integrated nutrient management in rabi maize on growth and yield parameters of summer green gram under maize-green gram cropping sequence, International Journal of Agricultural Sciences, 8, pp. 2626-2630, (2016); 
Singh S.K., Varma S.C., Singh R.P., Effect of integrated nutrient management on yield, nutrient uptake and changes in soil fertility under rice (Oryza sativa)-Lentil (Lens culinaris) cropping system, Indian Journal of Agronomy, 46, pp. 191-197, (2001)#FRF#
