#ITI#Survey, collection and seed morphometric characterization of French bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) landraces of Himachal Pradesh#FTI#
#IRE#The study was conducted to survey and collect various French bean genotypes from the main hot spot regions of Himachal Pradesh like Shimla, Chamba, Sirmour, Kullu, Kinnaur and some areas of Mandi and Solan district. Different bean genotypes were collected in a 15-day exploration trip from various geographical regions. The collected seed samples were evaluated and characterized for intra-specific seed morpho-metric characteristics like seed coat colour, hilum colour, seed shape, hypocotyls pigmentation, cotyledon colour pubescence on hypocotyls, 100 seed weight (g), seed length (mm) and seed width (mm). The evaluated genetic material was then deposited in the short term seed bank of Department of Seed Science and Technology UHF Nauni for future correspondence. The genetic diversity found among the landraces is of great importance in the utilization of the species for food and nutrition and more importantly for genetic improvement. The study would prove a basic primary step in germplasm recognisition activity for future breeding programmes and will project the local available genetic footprints to entire agro associated enterprises for necessary consideration. © 2018, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#French bean genotypes; Seed morphometric characteristics; Survey; Variability#FPC#
#IRF#Diagnostic Characteristics of Rice Varieties. National Seed Project (Crops), (1999); 
(2013); 
Horticultural Statistics at a Glance, (2015); 
Bellon Mauricio R., van Jacob E., Climate Change and On-Farm Conservation of Crop Landraces in Centres of Diversity, (2014); 
Bode D., Elezi F., Gixhari B., Morphological characterization and interrelationships among descriptors in Phaseolus vulgaris accessions, Agriculture and Forestry, 59, 2, pp. 175-185, (2013); 
Brigitte Maass L., Changes in seed morphology, dormancy and germination from wild to cultivated hyacinth bean germplasm (Lablab purpureus: Papilionoideae), Genetic Resources and Crop Evolution, 53, pp. 1127-1135, (2006); 
Chandrashekhar S.S., Influence of the age of the seed on plant growth, seed yield and quality and characterization of French bean genotypes., (2005); 
Chattopadhyay A., Dutta S., Characterization and identification of selection indices of pole type Dolichos bean, Vegetable Crops Research Bulletin, 73, pp. 33-45, (2010); 
Duke J.A., Handbook of Legumes of World Economic Importance. New York, USA, pp. 195-200, (1981); 
Karasu A., Oz M., A study on coefficient analysis and association between agronomical characters in dry bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), Bulgarian Journal of Agricultural Science, 16, 2, pp. 203-211, (2010); 
Neupane R.K., Shrestha R., Vaidya M.L., Bhattarai E.M., Daral R., Agromorphological diversity in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) landraces of Jumla, Nepal. Proceeding of the Fourth International Food Legumes research Conference (IFLRC-IV), pp. 1-11, (2005); 
Jay P., Ram R.B., Genetic variability, correlation and path analysis for seed yield and yield related traits in French bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) under Lucknow conditions, International Journal of Innovative Science, Engineering & Technology, 1, 6, pp. 41-50, (2014); 
Prashanth N.D., Studies on spacing and phosphorus levels on seed yield and quality and varietal identification in French bean., (2003); 
Rania M.A., Nassar Y., Ahmed M., Boghdady M.S., Botanical studies on Phaseolus vulgaris L. 1-Morphology of vegetative and reproductive growth, International Journal of Botany, 6, 3, (2010); 
Singh B., Chaubey T., Upadhyay D.K., Jha A., Pandey S.D., Morphological description of French bean varieties based on DUS characters, Indian Journal of Horticulture, 71, 3, pp. 345-348, (2014); 
Stoilova T., Pereira G., Sousa M.T.D., Morphological characterization of a small common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) collection under different environments, Journal of Central European Agriculture, 14, 3, pp. 1-11, (2013)#FRF#
