#ITI#Diversity and development in fababean#FTI#
#IRE#Introductions for research purposes include germplasm, elite strains, improved varieties, genetic stocks in different crops from various parts of the world. NBPGR is authorized by the Ministry of Agriculture to undertake introduction and quarantine processing of germplasm including transgenics under exchange for both public and private sector organizations conforming to the national regulations. To meet the food demand quality seed is the basic unit for any agricultural production system. Production of high quality seed of improved varieties having high analytical quality, coupled with high germination capacity, vigour and uniformly large size, is required for improving faba bean production in this country. There is urgent need to strengthen the network on faba bean improvement programme in India. Keeping in view the geopolitical situation of India, utmost care has to be taken to make India in a respectable position in world market to evolve as global player for this fabulous crop. To fulfill these desires breeding varieties for yield, quality and resistance against biotic and abiotic stress is required. Maintaining the genetic purity of the seeds of improved cultivars is of utmost importance and will enable to exploit the full benefits of introducing seeds of improved varieties in faba bean. © 2017, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Export; Faba bean; Germplasm; Introductions#FPC#
#IRF#Bond D.A., Laws D.A., Hawtin G.C., Saxena M.C., Stephens J.S., Fababean (Vicia faba L.), Grain Legume Crops, pp. 199-265, (1985); 
Cubero J.I., Interspecific hybridization in Vicia, Faba Beanimprovement. the Hague, the Netherlands. Martines Nijhoff Publishers, pp. 91-108, (1982); 
Cubero J.I., Taxonomy, distribution and evolution of fababean and its wild relatives, Genetic Resources and Their Exploration – Chickpea, Fababean and Lentils., (1984); 
Cubero J.I., Suso M., Primitive and Modern forms of Vicia faba, Kulturflanze. XXIX, pp. 137-145, (1981); 
Hopf M., Fru he Kulturpflanzen aus bulgarien, Jahrbuch Des Ro Misch-Germanischer Zentralmuseums Mainz, 20, pp. 1-47, (1973); 
Pritam K., Sood K., Singh Y., Genetic variability in fababean (Vicia faba L.) for pod yield and its contributing traits, Indian J. Genet., 63, pp. 261-262, (2003); 
Maxted N., Establishment of a Global Network for the in situ conservation of wild relatives: Status and needs, And Kell, (2009); 
Quarantine P., (Regulation of Import into India) Order (2003) and its amendments. The Gazette of India. Extraordinary, Part II Section 3 subsection (ii), No 1037, November, (2003); 
Bhandari R.H.L.D.C., Phogat B.S., Bansal K.C., Annual Report 2012. All India Coordinated Research Network on Underutilized Crops, (2013); 
Singh A.K., Bhatt B.P., Fababean (Vicia Faba L.): A Potential Leguminous Crop of India, (2012); 
Zohary D., Comments on the origin of cultivated broadbean, Vicia Faba L. Israel J. Bot., 26, pp. 39-41, (1977)#FRF#
