#ITI#Evaluation of chickpea varieties treated with bio inoculants for yield performance, disease resistance and adaptability to climatic conditions of gariyaband district in Chhattisgarh#FTI#
#IRE#A field experiment was carried out at KVK farm in Gariyaband District of Chhattisgarh State during the rabi season of 2013-14 and 2014-15 to study the efficacy of microbial inoculation with Rhizobium and Trichoderma on plant growth parameters, yield and disease resistance of 6 varieties of chickpea. Soil application with Trichoderma enriched farmyard manure in different plots was done one week before sowing and seed dressing with Rhizobium was done individually at the time of sowing. Among the chickpea varieties, JG 74 performed better in respect of nodule number., yield attributes and yield. Among the inoculants, dual application of Rhizobium + Trichoderma was found most effective in terms of improving germination, shoot length, nodule number. and also showed its positive effect in enhancement of all the yield attributing parameters (number.of pods,100 - seed weight) and yield. Study showed that inoculation with Rhizobium and soil application of Trichoderma enriched FYM gave an additive effect to seed dressing in reducing disease resistance thus enhancing crop yield. © 2018, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Chickpea; Disease; Rhizobium; Trichoderma; Varieties; Yield#FPC#
#IRF#Gupta S.B.C., Thakur T., Exploiting Rhizobium isolates from Lathyrus as biocontrol agent against legume rot pathogen Sclerotium rolfsii. J.Mycol. Pl, Pathol. 35, pp. 224-227, (2005); 
Harman G.E., Howell C.R., Viterbo A., Chet I., Lorito M., Trichoderma species- opportunistic, Avirulent Plant Symbionts, Nature Reviews/Microbiology, 2, pp. 43-56, (2004); 
Ramanujan B., Prasad R.D., Sriram S., Rangeswaran R., Mass production, formulation, quality control and delivery of Trichoderma for plant disease management, The Journal of Plant Protection Sciences, 2, pp. 1-8, (2010); 
Rudresh D.L., Shivaprakash M.K., Prasad R.D., Effect of combined application of Rhizobium, phosphate solubilizing bacterium and Trichoderma spp. On growth, nutrient uptake and yield of chickpea (Cicer arietinumL.), Appl Soil Ecol, 28, pp. 139-146, (2005)#FRF#
