#ITI#Multidimensional study of pulse production in bundelkhand region of India#FTI#
#IRE#The Bundelkhand is a major pulses growing region of India. The livelihood of farm households in the region dependent on the agriculture and particularly on pulses as one of the major cultivated crop. The Bundelkhand region comprises of 13 districts which includes 7 districts from Uttar Pradesh and 6 districts from Madhya Pradesh. The major growing pulse crops are pigeonpea, urdbean, and mungbean cultivated during kharif and chickpea, field pea and lentil in rabi season. The study was conducted among 650 farmers to know the extent of adoption of improved pulse production practices and constraints perceived by the farmers in cultivation of the pulses in Bundelkhand region. The study revealed that all the sampled farmers of Hamirpur district were using improved seed of pulses whereas fertilize was applied by all the sampled farmers of Chitrakut district. The plant protection measures used by all the selected farmers of Chitrakut, Jalaun and Mahoba districts. In Madhya Pradesh, about 90% selected farmers of Sagar and Tikamgarh district were using improved seed of pulses, application of DAP and pest management done by all the farmers. About 70% farmers of Jhansi and Mahoba district farmers faced the problem of assess to quality seed while 70 % sampled farmers of Madhya Pradesh reported lack of knowledge about quality seed, non availability of fertilizers in Tikamgarh district, problem in lentil crop. Problem of weed management reported by 60-80% of sampled farmers from all the district of M. P. Thus it can be concluded that assess to quality seed, insect damage loss and menance of blue bull were the major constraints adversely impacted the pulse production in Bundhelkhand region. © 2017, Agricultural Research Communication Centre. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Adoption; Bundelkhand region; Constraints#FPC#
#IRF#Masood A., Singh S.K., Singh B.B., Half Yearly Report of ISOPOM Project Development and Popularization of Model Seed System for Quality Seed Production of Major Legumes to ensure Seed Sufficiency at Village Level, (2008); 
Khatiwada M.K., The production of food legumes in the Himalayan range, (1986); 
Lal S., Pulses Production in Eastern U.P, pp. 89-102, (1983); 
McWilliam J.R., Dillon J.L., Improvement of food legumes: Progress and constraints, (1986); 
Kumar R., Singh S.K., Purushottam U.S., Dissemination of pulse production technologies in Uttar Pradesh: A micro-level analysis, Pub: Journal of Food Legumes., 25, pp. 340-343, (2012)#FRF#
