#ITI#Vitality and healthiness of barley (Hordeum Vulgare L.) seeds treated with plant extracts#FTI#
#IRE#The aim of presented experiments was to determine the usefulness of plant extracts for dressing of cereal seeds. Water extracts (macerations, infusions) prepared from different morphological parts of 39 plant species were used as dressing preparations. Non-disinfected seeds of two cultivars of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.): Rudzik (brewing barley) and Stratus (common barley) were used for the purpose of dressing. The experiment was conducted as a filter paper test (PN-94 R-65950) while determining the germination viability (1st date) and the germination capacity (2nd date) as well as the healthiness of the seeds.A significant differentiation of the effect of the extracts on vitality and healthiness of seeds was demonstrated depending on the origin of the extract (plant species), the way it was prepared and an interaction between these factors.The germination viability of seeds of brewing barley was influenced mostly by infusions from fruits of Coriandrum sativum, from seeds of Linum usitatissimum, from bark of Quercus robur, from roots of Levisticum officinale, from roots of Arctium lappa and from flowers of Verbascum thapsiforme. The most favourable activity on germination capacity was revealed using the infusions from seeds of L. usitatissimum, from roots of A. lappa, from fruits of C. sativum and macerations from roots of A. lappa, from fruits of C. sativum and from bark of Q. robur. The infestation of seeds by microflora was reduced by macerations from leaves of Betula verrucosa, from seeds of L. usitatissimum, from fruits of Juniperus communis, and infusions from flowers of Crataegus oxyacantha, from seeds of L. usitatissimum, from leaves of B. verrucosa.The most favourable impact on viability of the seeds of common barley was revealed for infusions from roots of L. officinale, from stigmas of Zea mays, from flowers of C. oxyacantha and macerations from flowers of Lavandula vera, from leaves of Mentha piperita and from roots of L. officinale. A positive effect on the germination capacity was exerted by infusions from the stigmas of Z. mays, from flowers of C. oxyacantha, from rhizomes of Acorus calamus, from bark of Frangula alnus, and macerations from bark of F. alnus, from leaves of M. piperita, from flowers of C. oxyacantha and from herb of Marrubium vulgare.The contamination of the seeds by microflora was reduced most effectively with infusions from young sprouts of Pinus sylvestris, from roots of Inula helenium, from leaves of Juglans regia, from herb of M. vulgare, from stigmas of Z. mays and macerations from rhizomes of A. calamus, from herb of M. vulgare, from leaves of J. regia, from seeds of L. usitatissimum and from flowers of L. vera.#FRE#
#IPC#barley; plant extracts; seed dressing; vitality and healthiness of seeds#FPC#
#IRF#Ajzenman B.E., Smirnov V.V., Bondarenko A.S., Fitoncydy i antibiotiki vyssich rastenij, Naukova Dumka., (1984); 
Burgiel Z.J., Moliszewska E.B., Fungistatyczna aktywnosc wybranych wyciagow roslinnych, Chem. Inz. Ekol., 6, 2-3, (1999); 
Burgiel Z.J., Czy preparaty roslinne zastapia syntetyczne fungicydy? Ochrona srodowiska naturalnego w XXI wieku - Nowe wyzwania i zagrozenia, Fundacja Na Rzecz Wspierania Badan Naukowych., (2005); 
Janas R., Grzesik M., Zastosowanie srodkow biologicznych do poprawy jakosci nasion roslin ogrodniczych, Prog. Plant Protection/Post. Ochr. Roslin, 45, 2, (2005); 
Jarosz A., Golebiak B., Wplyw ekstraktow roslinnych i chitozanu na rozwoj skorzastej zgnilizny owocow truskawki (Phytophthora cactorum), Prog. Plant Protection/Post. Ochr. Roslin, 45, 2, (2005); 
Panasiewicz K., Koziara W., Sulewska H., Skrzypczak W., Wplyw biologicznych i chemicznych zapraw nasiennych na parametry wigorowe ziarna zboz, Prog. Plant Protection/ Post. Ochr. Roslin, 47, 2, (2007); 
Pietr S., Sowinski J., Kita W., Nowak W., Bury M., Songin H., Ocena skutecznosci biologicznego preparatu Cedomon w ochronie jeczmienia jarego w warunkach polowych, Prog. Plant Protection/Post. Ochr. Roslin, 41, 2, (2001); 
Pisarek M., Proby wykorzystania ekstraktow z roslin leczniczych do zwalczania slimakow nagich, Prog. Plant Protection/Post. Ochr. Roslin, 43, 2, (2003); 
Pisarek M., Oddzialywanie wodnych wyciagow i naparow z korzeni wybranych roslin zielarskich na zerowanie slimakow nagich z rodzaju Arion, Prog. Plant Protection/Post. Ochr. Roslin, 46, 2, (2006); 
Material siewny. Metody badania nasion, Polski Komitet Normalizacyjny., (1994); 
Saniewska A., Zuradzka I., Comparison of antifungal activity of four cultivars of garlic (Allium sativum L.) for several pathogenic fungi, Folia Hortic. Ann., 13, 1 A, (2001); 
Sas-Piotrowska B., Piotrowski W., Kaczmarek-Cichosz R., Plant extracts and their influence on some properties of seeds of cultivated plants-grain plants, Annu. Set Environ. Protect., 6, (2004); 
Sas-Piotrowska B., Piotrowski W., Kaczmarek-Cichosz R., Vitality and healthiness of oat (Avena sativa L.) seeds treated with plant extracts, J. Plant Protection Res., 45, 3, (2005); 
Solarska E., Ochrona roslin w rolnictwie ekologicznym. Strategia Doliny Ekologicznej Zywnosci, I Konsultacje Spoleczne., (2005); 
Stampor-Chrzan E., Wplyw wybranych biopreparatow na rozwoj plamistosci floksa, Prog. Plant Protection/Post. Ochr. Roslin, 48, 2, (2008); 
Sliwa B., Wykaz Srodkow Ochrony Roslin W Rolnictwie Ekologicznym., (2009)#FRF#
