#ITI#Monitoring of codling moth (Cydia pomonella L.) in apple orchards using two methods#FTI#
#IRE#The present studies were conducted in 1999-2001 in three apple orchards differing from each other by the system of cultivation, the type of agricultural treatments and chemical control of pests. Their purpose was to monitor codling moth (Cydia pomonella L.) in different types of apple orchards using pheromone traps, finding out the relation between the occurrence of moths and the sum of effective temperatures as well as determining the number of wintering caterpillars of this species with the use of bands of corrugated paper. The analysis of male flight of codling moth on the basis of pheromone traps makes it possible to state the occurrence of two generations in each studied year. The maximum population of the first generation was observed in the second or third ten days of June, while that of the second generation in the first ten days of August. The moths flight began when the sum of effective temperatures was 109.2-145.2°C, and the mean diurnal temperature was 12.3-17.2°C.#FRE#
#IPC#apple orchards; codling moth; Cydia pomonella L.; monitoring; pheromone traps; sum of effective temperatures#FPC#
#IRF#Alford D.V., Carden P.W., Dennis E.B., Gould H.J., Vernon J.D.R., Monitoring codling and tortrix moths in United Kingdom apple orchards using pheromone traps, Ann. Appl. Biol., 91, (1979); 
Bulyginskaja M.A., Emeljanov V.A., Dinamika liota samcov jablonnoj plodožorki Laspeyresia pomonella L. (Lepidoptera, Tortricidae) na sintetičeskie polovye feromony v sadach severo-zapada Rossii i predeljajuščie ee faktory, Entomlogičeskoe Obozrenie, 76, 2, (1997); 
Cranham J.E., Studies with sex pheromones. Codling moth, Laspeyresia pomonella, East Malling Research Station Annual Report for 1973, (1974); 
Jeanneret Ph., Charmillot P.J., Populations de tordeuses dans les vergers d'arbres a haute tige et risque de colonisation pour les cultures commerciales de pommieres. Revue Suisse Vitic, Arboric. Hortic., 29, 4, (1997); 
Kagan F., Metody prognozowania i sygnalizacji wystȩpowania szkodników drzew i krzewów owocowych, Instrukcja Dla Sluzb Ochrony Roślin Z Zakresu Prognoz Sygnalizacji i Rejestracji, Cz. II, (1976); 
Kozlowski J., Prognoza wystȩpowania i ustalenie terminu zwalczania owocówki jablkóweczki (Carpocapsa pomonella L.) w latach 1981-1992 w Wielkopolsce, Prace Nauk. Inst. Ochr. Roślin, 35, 1-2, (1993); 
Pluciennik Z., Wykorzystanie pulapek feromonowych i selektywnych insektycydów do zwalczania owocówki jablkóweczki, Proc. Ogólnopol. Nauk. Konf. Ochr. Roślin Sad., (1999); 
Pluciennik Z., Problemy ze zwalczaniem owocówki jablkóweczki w 1999 roku, Proc. Ogólnopol. Nauk. Konf. Ochr. Roślin Sad., (2000); 
Pluciennik Z., Olszak R.W., Owocówka jablkóweczka - Stan zagrozenia, zwalczanie, Proc. Ogólnopol. Konf. Ochr. Roślin Sad., (1996); 
Razowski J., Motyle (Lepidoptera) Polski. Cz. VIII - Grapholitini, Monografie Fauny Polski, 19, (1991); 
Stamenkovic S., Milenkovic S., Stamenkovic T., Polesny F., Population dynamics of summer fruit tortrix moth Adoxophyes orana F.v.R. (Lepidoptera, Tortricidae) in Western Serbia, Proc. Workshop on Arthropod Pest Problems in Pome Fruit Production at Einsiedeln, Switzerland, (1999); 
Stanisz A., Podstawy statystyki dla prowadzz̧cych badania naukowe. Testy nieparametryczne - Cz. II, Medycyna Praktyczna, 10, (1999); 
Suski Z., Niemczyk E., Uwagi nad integrowanym zwalczaniem szkodników sadów w Polsce, Wiad. Entomol., 5, 3-4, (1985); 
Szujecki A., Ekologia Owadów Leśnych, (1980)#FRF#
