#ITI#The role of parasitoids in limiting the harmfulness of leafrollers in apple orchards#FTI#
#IRE#The aim of the studies was to determine significance of parasitoids as biocontrol agents against teafrollers in apple orchards. The studies were performed in different parts of Poland in 1994-2001. An average parasitization level of caterpillars amounted to ca. 8.6%, and it varied broadly up to individual orchards (from 2.4 to 32.4%). A natural parasitization level was strictly related to the intensity of orchards' protection against pests. Higher parasitization was observed in case of less protected orchards, and in those ones with a great number of leafrollers.The greatest share in parasitizing leafroller caterpillars was stated for hymenopterans belonging to two families: Ichneumonidae and Braconidae. Populations of leafrollers were most effectively reduced by the following parasitoid species: Ascogaster rufidens, Apanteles ater, Meteorus ictericus, Macrocentrus linearis and M. thoracicus of Braconidae as well as Campoplex mutabilis, Lissonota segmentator, Phytodietus segmentator, Itoplectis maculator, Diadegma armillatum and Apechthis rufata of Ichneumonidae.The results of conducted research also revealed preferences of particular parasitoids to parasitize some leafroller species. A. rufidens had the greatest share in parasitizing caterpillars of Pandemis heparana. Among hymenopterani parasitoids of Archips rosanus, the one most numerously occurring was C. mutabilis, also considered as the main parasitoid of Acleris rhombana. In parasitizing the leafroller Adoxophyes orana the greatest share fell to M. ictericus while in case of Spilonota ocellana - the most frequent parasitoid was A. quadridentata.Tachinid flies were found to be of a minor importance in parasitization of leafroller caterpillars. They were only raised from four leafroller species, and their largest share fell in parasitization of A. rosanus.Parasitation of A. rosanus eggs by Trichogramma sp. varied broadly depending on individual orchards and growing seasons, and ranged 0.8 to 33.9%.#FRE#
#IPC#braconids; caterpillars; hymenopteran parasitoids; ichneumonids; leafrollers; pupae#FPC#
#IRF#Alizadeh A., Mohamad-Amin S., Masood Kh., Saberi-Riseh R., Compatibility of Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. with several pesticides, Int. J. Agri. Bio., 9, 1, (2007); 
Alves S.B., Lecuona R.E., Epizootiologia aplicada ao controle microbiano de insetos, Controle Microbiano de Insetos, (1998); 
Alves S.B., Monino Jr. A., Almeida J.E.M., Produtos fitos-sanitarios e entomopatogenicos, Controle Microbiano de Insetos, (1998); 
Anderson T.E., Roberts D.W., Compatibility of Beauveria bassiana isolate with insecticide formulations used in Colorado Potato Beetle (Coleotera: Crysomelidae) Control, J. Econ. Entomol., 76, (1983); 
Ansari M.A., Shah F.A., Whittaker M., Prasad M., Butt T.M., Control of western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis pupae with Metarhizium anisopliae in peat and peat alternative growing media, Biol. Control, 40, (2007); 
Azaizeh H., Gindin G., Said O., Barash I., Biological control of the western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis in cucumber using the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae, Phytoparasitica, 30, (2002); 
Batista Filho A., Aves S.B., Formulacao de entomopatogenicos, Controle Microbiano de Insetos, 1, (1998); 
Batista Filho A., Leite L.G., Enhanced activity of Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. associated with mineral oil against Cosmopolites sordidus (Germar) adults, Ann. Soc. Entomol. Brasil, 24, (1995); 
Behle R., Compton D., Laszlo J., Shapiro Ilan D., Potential use of soyscreen in formulations of Beauveria bassiana for UV protection, Entomol. Soci. Amer. Ann. Meet. North Central Branch., (2006); 
Benz G., Environment, Epizootiology of Insect Diseases, (1987); 
Boucias D.G., Pendland J.C., Nonspecific factors involved in attachment of entomopathogenic deuteromycetes to host insect cuticle, Appl. Environ. Microbiol., 54, (1988); 
Butt T.M., Jackson C., Magan N., Introduced-fungal biocontrol agent: Progress, problems and potential, Fungi As Biocontrol Agent, (2001); 
De Olivera R.C., Neves P.M.O.J., Biological control compatibility of Beauveria bassiana with acaricides, Neotrop. Entomol., 33, (2004); 
Duarte A., Menendez J.M., Triguero N., Estudio preliminar sobre la compatibilidad de Metarhizium anisopliae com algunos plaguicidas quimicos, Rev. Baracoa, 22, (1992); 
Ekesi S., Maniania N.K., Susceptibility of Megalurothrips sjostedti development stages to Metarhizium anisopliae and the effects of infection on feeding adult fecundity, egg fertility and longevity, Entomol. Exp. Appl., 94, (2000); 
Furlong M.J., Pell J.K., The influence of environmental factors on the persistence of Zoophthora radicans conidia, J. Inverteb. Pathol., 69, (1997); 
Ghini R., Kimati H., Resistencia de fungos a fungicidas, Jaguariuna, EMBRAPA Meio Ambient, (2000); 
Kimati H., Controle químico, Manual de Fitopatologia, (1995); 
Li D.P., Holdom D.G., Effects of nutrients on colony formation, growth, and sporulation of Metarhizium anisopliae (Deuteromycotina, Hyphomycetes), J. Invertebr. Pathol., 65, (1995); 
Loria R., Galaini S., Roberts D.W., Survival of inoculum of the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana as influenced by fungicides, Environ. Entomol., 12, (1983); 
Malo A.R., Estudio sobre la compatibilidad del hongo Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. con formulaciones comerciales de fungicidas e insecticidas, Rev. Colomb. Entomol., 19, (1993); 
Maniania N.K., Ekesi S., Lohr B., Wangi F., Prospects for biological control of the flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis, with the entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae on chrysanthemum, Mycopathologia, 155, (2003); 
Moino Jr. A., Alves S.B., Efeito de imidacloprid e fipronil sobre Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. e Metarhizium anisopliae (Metsch.) Sorok. no comportamento de limpeza de Heterotermes tenuis (Hagen), Ann. Soc. Entomol. Brasil, 27, (1998); 
Neves P.M.O.J., Hirose E., Tchujo P.T., Compatibility of entomopathogenic fungi with neonicotinoid insecticides, Neotrop. Entomol., 30, (2001); 
Osborne L.S., Boucias D.G., A review of chemical antagonists to mycopathogens of citrus root weevils, Fla. Entomol., 68, (1985); 
Quintela E.D., McCoy C.W., Synergistic effect of imidacloprid and two entomopathogenic fungi on the behavior and survival of larvae of Diaprepes abbreviatus (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) in soil, J. Econ. Entomol., 91, (1998); 
Roberts D.W., Campbell A.S., Stability of entomopathogenic fungi, Misc. Publ. Entomol. Soc. Am., 10, (1977); 
St Leger R.J., Cooper R.M., Production of cuticle-degrading enzymes by the Metarhizium anisopliae during infection of cuticles from Calliphora vomitoria and Manduca sexta, J. Gen. Microbiol., 133, (1987); 
St Leger R.J., Goettel M., Roberts D.W., Preparation events during infection of host cuticle by Metarhizium anisopliae, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 58, (1991); 
Todorova S.I., Coderre D., Duchesne R.M., Compatibility of Beauveria bassiana with selected fungicides and herbicides, Environ. Entomol., 27, (1998); 
Vestergarrd S., Gilliespie A.M., Butt T.M., Schreiter G., Eilenberg J., Pathogenicity of the hyphomycetes fungi Verticillium lecanii and Metarhizium anisopliae to the western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis, Biocontrol Sci. Technol., 5, (1995); 
Zimmerman G., Über die Wirkung systemischer Fungizide auf verschiedene insektenpathogene Fungi imperfecti in vitro, Nachrichtenbl. Dtsch. Pflanzenschutzdienst (Berl.), 27, (1975)#FRF#
