#ITI#Development of a cost effective medium for production of bacillus thuringiensis bioinsecticide using food barley#FTI#
#IRE#Genetically manipulated food barley, Hordeum vulgare L. var. valfajr, was compared to commercial-grade starch as carbon sources in groundnut and soybean based media for supporting growth, sporulation and delta-endotoxin production by Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner B. thuringiensis kurstaki HD-1 and a promising newly isolated B. thuringiensis strain (referred to as BTA) were used. MgCl 2, CaCl2, and MnCl2 were used as trace-elements. Culture media were compared in shaken flasks and then in 5 l Fermentors. Biomass, delta-endotoxin levels and the number of spores as colony forming units (CFU) were evaluated. For each of the two strains, biomass and delta-endotoxin synthesis were not significantly different in soybean-based media after substitution starch by barley flour. There were significant differences between the two strains with respect to biomass and toxin production. Evaluated costs of media preparation showed that food barley is an economical alternative to commercial-grade starch in the production of BTA bioinsecticide.#FRE#
#IPC#Bacillus thuringiensis; bioinsecticide; culture media; food barley#FPC#
#IRF#Bradford M.M., A rapid and sensitive method for the quantification of microgram quantities of protein utilizing the principle of protein-dye binding, Ann. Biochem., 72, (1976); 
Dregval O.A., Cherevach N.V., Andrienko O.E., Vinnikov A.I., The effect of a soil extract on the development of Bacillus thuringiensis on its synthesis of an insecticidal endotoxin, Mikrobiol. Z., 61, (1999); 
Dregval O.A., Cherevach N.V., Vinnikov A.I., Influence of composition of the nutrient medium on growth and development of entomopathogenic bacteria Bacillus thuringiensis, Mikrobiol. Z., 64, (2002); 
Ghribi D., Zouari N., Trigui W., Jaoua S., Use of sea water as salts source in starch- And soya bean-based media, for the production of Bacillus thuringiensis bioinsecticides, Proc. Biochem., 42, (2007); 
Grando S., Macpherson H.G., Food Barley: Importance, Uses and Local Knowledge, (2008); 
Grausgruber H., Scheiblauer J., Schonlechner R., Ruckenbauer P., Berghofer E., Variability in chemical composition and biologically active constituents of cereals, Proc. of 17th EUCARPIA General Cong., (2004); 
Helm C.V., Francisco A.D., Chemical characterization of Brazilian hulless barley varieties, flour fractionation, and protein concentration, Sci. Agric., 61, (2004); 
Jing-Wen Z., Ya-Fei Ch., Zheng-Hong X., Zi-Niu Y., Shou-Wen Ch., Production of thuringiensin by fed-batch culture of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. darmstadiensis 032 with an improved pH-control glucose fooding strategy, Proc. Biochem., 42, (2007); 
Kumar A., Sra K., Sangodkar U.M.X., Sharma V.P., Advances in the bio-control of mosquito vectors utilizing Bacillus sphaericus and Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis, Proc. Natl. Acad. Aci. India, 70, (2000); 
Laemmli U.K., Cleavage of structural proteins during the assembly of the head of bacteriophage T4, Nature, 227, (1970); 
Linko R., Lapvetelainen A., Laakso P., Kallio H., Protein composition of a high-protein barley flour and barley grain, Cereal Chem., 66, (1989); 
Luna C.L., Silva G.R., Rios E.M., Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis production involving re-use of the supernatant, Biotechnol. Lett., 26, (2004); 
Mummigatti S.G., Raghunathan A.N., Influence of media composition on the production of delta-endotoxin by Bacillus thuringiensis var. thuringiensis, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 55, (1990); 
Poopathi S., Kumar K.A., Novel fermentation media for production of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis, J. Econ. Entomol., 96, (2003); 
Prabakaran G., Balaraman K., Development of a cost-effective medium for the large scale production of Bacillus thuringiensis var israelensis, Biological Control, 36, 3, (2006); 
Saalma H.S., Foda M.S., Dulmage H.T., Sharaby E.L., Novel fermentation medium for production of delta endotoxin from Bacillus thuringiensis, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 41, (1983); 
Zouari N., Bensikali S., Jaoua S., Production of delta-endotoxins by Bacillus thuringiensis strains exhibiting various insecticidal activities towards Lepidoptera and Diptera in gruel and fish meal media, Enzyme Microb. Technol., 31, (2002)#FRF#
