#ITI#Storage potentials and tolerance of high protein maize (HPM) and quality protein maize (QPM) to seed storage pests in controlled environment#FTI#
#IRE#Studies on seed storage were conducted at seed processing and storage section of the Institute of Agricultural Research and Training, Obafemi Awolowo University, Moor Plantation, Ibadan Nigeria in 2007 and 2008, to evaluate High protein maize (HPM) seed for resistance/tolerance to storage insect pest, and assess the resultant effect of seed treatment chemicals on its germination potential. Seeds of HPM variety (ART-98-SW1) and Quality protein maize (QPM) variety (ILE-1-OB) and two varieties of field corn (SUWAN-1-SR and TZPB-SRW) were treated with chemicals, namely Fitscophos™, Actellic 25 EC™, Apron Star™ and combination of Actellic 25 EC and Fitscophos before storing them under controlled environment for six months. The results show that HPM, QPM and field corn require storage chemicals for effective storage, but both QPM and HPM varieties were significantly damaged by storage insect pests compared to field corn varieties regardless of the chemical used. Apron Star effectively reduced infestation by insect pests, but it may bring about significant reduction in seed viability if used for long term storage. Combination of Actellic 25 EC and Fitscophos successfully reduced infestation by insect pests without significant injurious effect on seed viability. Breeding programmes for resistance to storage pests is recommended while long term effects of Apron Star on seed viability needs to be investigated before recommending it for use in HPM/QPM maize varieties.#FRE#
#IPC#High protein maize; Quality protein maize; storage chemicals; storage insect pest#FPC#
#IRF#Adebisi M.A., Daniel I.O., Ajala M.O., Storage life of soybean (Glycine max L. Merril) seeds after seed dressing, J. Trop. Agric., 42, 1-2, (2003); 
Akande S.R., Lamidi G.O., Performance of quality protein maize varieties and disease reaction in the derived-savannah agro-ecology of South-West Nigeria, Afr. J. Biotechnol., 5, 19, (2006); 
Bressani R., Protein quality of high-lysine maize for humans, Cereals Foods World, 36, (1991); 
Duncan D.B., Multiple range and multiple of tests, Biometrics, 11, (1955); 
Gc Y.D., Efficacy of indigenous plant materials and modified storage structures to insect pests of maize seed during on farm storage, J. Inst. Agric. Anim. Sci., 27, (2006); 
International rules for seed testing, Seed Sci. Technol., 21, SUPPL., (1996); 
Krivanek A.F., Groote H., Guanaratna N.S., Diallo A.O., Friesen D., Breeding and disseminating quality protein maize (QPM) for Africa, Afr. J. Biotechnol., 6, 4, (2006); 
Quality Protein Maize, (1988); 
Onwueme I.C., Sinha T.D., Field crop production in tropical Africa, CTA, (1999); 
Vassal S.K., Srinvisan G., Pandey S., Gonzalez F., Crossa J., Beck D.L., Heterosis and combining ability of CIMMYTS protein maize germplasm, Lowland Tropical Crop Sci., 33, (1993)#FRF#
