#ITI#Risk assessment of high pathogenicity avian influenza virus introduction into Poland via legal importation of live poultry#FTI#
#IRE#The risk of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus introduction via import of live poultry results from the probability that infected birds are exported from apparently HPAI-free areas during the silent phase of the epidemic, i.e., the period between an incursion of the virus into a susceptible population and a report on the outbreak by an exporting country. In our study we adapted a stochastic model, previously published in 2010 by Sánchez-Vizcaíno et al., with our own modifications in which the probability of HPAI introduction was assessed as the sum of the probabilities of entry of at least one infected bird from each susceptible species exported from each country into each Polish region (county). The mean annual probability of HPAI introduction into Poland via legal trade of live poultry was very low (3.07 6 10-3, which corresponds to 1 outbreak every 326 yr). The highest risk was associated with the import of turkeys (62%) and chickens (33%). The exporting countries that contributed the most to the overall risk were Italy (31%), the Netherlands (24%), and the Czech Republic (17%). The risk was not evenly distributed across the country and it seemed higher in western, north-central, and eastern Poland while several counties of the north-west, central, or south-east parts of the country were at negligible risk. The applied model provides quantitative evidence that the risk of HPAI introduction through legal trade of poultry does not play a major role and that other paths, such as wild birds migrations or illegal trade, should be considered as the most-likely routes along which the virus can be introduced.#FRE#
#IPC#Highly pathogenic avian influenza; Import; Poultry; Risk#FPC#
#IRF#Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza H5N1 Cases in Wild Birds in the Member States Reported to the Animal Disease Information System, (2016); 
Bruschke C.J.M., Pittman M., Laddomada A., International regulations and standards for avian influenza, including the vaccine standards of the world organisation for animal health, Rev. Sci. Tech, 28, pp. 379-389, (2009); 
Annual Reports on Surveillance for Avian Influenza in Poultry and in Wild Birds in Member States of the European Union [Internet], (2015); 
Trade Control and Expert System (TRACES), (2016); 
Statistical Office of the European Union; 
Martinez-Lopez B., Perez A.M., Torre A.D.L., Rodriguez J.M., Quantitative risk assessment of foot-And-mouth disease introduction into Spain via importation of live animals, Prev. Vet. Med, 86, pp. 43-56, (2008); 
World Organisation for Animal Health, (2016); 
O.I.E. Probability processes and calculations, Handbook on Import Risk Analysis for Animals and Animal Products, 2, (2004); 
Terrestrial Animal Health Code, 1, (2015); 
Update on Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in Animals (Type H5 and H7), (2004); 
Sanchez-Vizcaino F., Perez A., Lainez M., Sanchez-Vizcaino J.M., A quantitative assessment of the risk for highly pathogenic avian influenza introduction into Spain via legal trade of live poultry, Risk Anal, 30, pp. 798-807, (2010); 
Sanchez-Vizcaino F., Perez A., Lainez M., Sanchez-Vizcaino J.M., Quantification of the risk for introduction of virulent newcastle disease virus into Spain through legal trade of live poultry from european union countries, Avian Pathol, 39, pp. 459-465, (2010); 
Swayne D., Diseases of Poultry, (2013); 
Van Den Berg T., The role of the legal and illegal trade of live birds and avian products in the spread of avian influenza, Rev. Sci. Tech, 28, pp. 93-111, (2009)#FRF#
