#ITI#Detection of infectious laryngotracheitis virus antibodies by glycoprotein-specific ELISAs in chickens vaccinated with viral vector vaccines#FTI#
#IRE#Two glycoproteins of infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV), gI and gB, were expressed in baculovirus and purified for the development of ILTV recombinant protein-based ELISAs. The ability of gB and gI ELISAs to detect ILTV antibodies in chickens vaccinated with viral vector vaccines carrying the ILTV gB gene, Vectormune® FP-LT (the commercial fowlpox vector laryngotracheitis vaccine) and Vectormune® HVT-LT (commercial turkey herpesvirus vector laryngotracheitis vaccine), was evaluated using serum samples from experimentally vaccinated and challenge chickens. The detection of gB antibodies in the absence of gI antibodies in serum from chickens vaccinated with FP-LT indicated that the gB ELISA was specific for the detection of antibodies elicited by vaccination with this viral vector vaccine. The gB ELISA was more sensitive than the commercial ILTV ELISA to detect seroconversion after vaccination with the FP-LT vaccine. Both gI and gB antibodies were detected in the serum samples collected from chickens at different times postchallenge, indicating that the combination of these ELISAs was suitable to screen serum samples from chickens vaccinated with either recombinant viral vector FP-LT or HVT-LT vaccines. The agreement between the gI ELISA and the commercial ELISA to detect antibodies in serum samples collected after challenge was robust. However, further validation of these ELISAs needs to be performed with field samples. © American Association of Avian Pathologists.#FRE#
#IPC#Antibodies; ELISA; Glycoprotein B; Glycoprotein I; Infectious laryngotracheitis virus#FPC#
#IRF#Chang P.C., Chen K.T., Shien J.H., Shieh H.K., Expression of infectious laryngotracheitis virus glycoproteins in Escherichia coli and their application in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, Avian Dis., 46, pp. 570-580, (2002); 
Davison A.J., Herpesvirus systematics, Vet Microbiol., 143, pp. 52-69; 
Fahey K.J., Bagust T.J., York J.J., Laryngotracheitis herpesvirus infection in the chicken: The role of humoral antibody in immunity to a graded challenge infection, Avian Pathol., 12, pp. 505-514, (1983); 
Fahey K.J., York J.J., The role of mucosal antibody in immunity to infectious laryngotracheitis virus in chickens, J. Gen. Virol., 71, pp. 2401-2405, (1990); 
Guy J., Garci'A M., Infectious laryngotracheitis virus, Diseases of Poultry, pp. 137-152, (2008); 
Honda T., Okamura H., Taneno A., Yamada S., Takahashi E., The role of cell-mediated immunity in chickens inoculated with the cellassociated vaccine of attenuated infectious laryngotracheitis virus, J. Vet. Med. Sci., 56, pp. 1051-1055, (1994); 
Liu Y., Mundt E., Mundt A., Sylte M., Suarez D.L., Swayne D.E., Garcia M., Development and evaluation of an avian influenza, neuraminidase subtype 1, indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for poultry using the differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals control strategy, Avian Dis., 54, pp. 613-621, (2010); 
Vagnozzi A., Zavala G., Riblet S.M., Mundt A., Garcia M., Protection induced by infectious laryngotracheits virus (ILTV) liveattenuated and recombinant viral vector vaccines in broilers, Avian Pathol., 41, pp. 21-31, (2012); 
York J.J., Fahey K.J., Humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to the glycoproteins of infectious laryngotracheitis herpesvirus, Arch. Virol., 115, pp. 289-297, (1990); 
York J.J., Fahey K.J., Bagust T.J., Development and evaluation of an ELISA for the detection of antibody to infectious laryngotracheitis virus in chickens, Avian Dis., 27, pp. 409-421, (1983); 
York J.J., Sonza S., Fahey K.J., Immunogenic glycoproteins of infectious laryngotracheitis herpesvirus, Virology, 161, pp. 340-347, (1987)#FRF#
