#ITI#Incorporating risk communication into highly pathogenic avian influenza preparedness and response efforts#FTI#
#IRE#A highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) outbreak in the United States will initiate a federal emergency response effort that will consist of disease control and eradication efforts, including quarantine and movement control measures. These movement control measures will not only apply to live animals but also to animal products. However, with current egg industry "just-in-time" production practices, limited storage is available to hold eggs. As a result, stop movement orders can have significant unintended negative consequences, including severe disruptions to the food supply chain. Because stakeholders' perceptions of risk vary, waiting to initiate communication efforts until an HPAI event occurs can hinder disease control efforts, including the willingness of producers to comply with the response, and also can affect consumers' demand for the product. A public-private-academic partnership was formed to assess actual risks involved in the movement of egg industry products during an HPAI event through product specific, proactive risk assessments. The risk analysis process engaged a broad representation of stakeholders and promoted effective risk management and communication strategies before an HPAI outbreak event. This multidisciplinary team used the risk assessments in the development of the United States Department of Agriculture, Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza Secure Egg Supply Plan, a comprehensive response plan that strives to maintain continuity of business. The collaborative approach that was used demonstrates how a proactive risk communication strategy that involves many different stakeholders can be valuable in the development of a foreign animal disease response plan and build working relationships, trust, and understanding.#FRE#
#IPC#Avian influenza; public-private partnership; risk assessment; risk communication; Secure Egg Supply Plan#FPC#
#IRF#Forsythe S.J., The Microbiological Risk Assessment of Food, (2002); 
Hennessey M., Lee B., Goldsmith T., Halvorson D., Hueston W., McElroy K., Waters K., Supporting business continuity during a highly pathogenic avian influenza outbreak, Avian Dis, 54, SUPPL. 1, pp. 387-390, (2010); 
Lempert R.J., Collins M.T., Managing the risk of uncertain threshold responses: Comparison of robust, optimum, and precautionary approaches, Risk Analysis, 27, 4, pp. 1009-1026, (2007); 
Peters R.G., Covello V.T., McCallum D.B., The determinants of trust and credibility in environmental risk communication, an empirical study, Risk Anal, 17, pp. 43-54, (1997); 
Sandman P.M., Eblen R.A., Eblen W.R., Risk communication, Encyclopedia of the Environment, pp. 620-623, (1994); 
Sandman P., Lanard J., Crisis communication III: Involving the public, The American Industrial Hygiene Association, (2004); 
Sandman P.M., Landard J., Bird flu pandemic flu and poultry markets: Playing ostrich or talking turkey? [Internet], The Peter Sandman Risk Communication Website, (2006); 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) Response Plan: The Red Book, (2011); 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza Secure Egg Supply Plan, (2012); 
Foreign Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Plan (FAD PReP); 
Windhorst H.W., Recent and Future Dynamics in U.S. Egg Production and Trade, (2008); 
Introduction and Qualitative Risk Analysis In: Handbook on Import Risk Analysis for Animals and Animal Products, (2010)#FRF#
