#ITI#Retroviral inclusions in the enteric smooth muscle of a tumor-bearing young chicken#FTI#
#IRE#A 15-cm segment of small intestine from a 7-wk-old broiler chicken presented for slaughter was encased by a firm, white mass. Other tissues were grossly unremarkable. Microscopically, the enteric serosa and peripheral muscularis of this segment of small intestine were replaced by a fibrosarcoma. Numerous linear, intracytoplasmic, eosinophilic inclusion bodies were present in smooth muscle cells of the muscularis of the small intestine, and a few similar inclusions were present in the muscularis of the proventriculus. In the heart, there were rare intracytoplasmic inclusions typical of viral matrix inclusions. Ultrastructurally, inclusion bodies in enteric smooth muscle were viral matrix inclusions, and virions resembling avian retroviruses were present in adjacent intercellular spaces. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) extracted from tumor tissues indicated the presence of proviral DNA of subgroup J avian leukosis virus. This is the first description of the light microscopic appearance of these viral matrix inclusions in enteric smooth muscle.#FRE#
#IPC#Fibrosarcoma; Inclusion; Smooth muscle; Viral matrix#FPC#
#IRF#Bernhard W., Oberling C.H., Vigier P.H., Ultrastructure de virus dans le sarcome de Rous leur rapport avec le cytoplasme des cellules tumoralles, Bull. Assoc. Fr. Etud. Cancer, 43, pp. 407-422, (1956); 
Gilka F., Spencer J.L., Viral matrix inclusion bodies in myocardium of lymphoid leukosis virus-infected chickens, Am. J. Vet. Res, 46, pp. 1953-1960, (1985); 
Gilka F., Spencer J.L., Chronic myocarditis and circulatory syndrome in a white leghorn strain induced by an avian leukosis virus: Light and electron microscopic study, Avian Dis, 34, pp. 174-184, (1990); 
Kaliner G., Intracytoplasmic myocardial inclusions in chickens, Zentbl. Vet. Med. A, 21, pp. 774-778, (1974); 
Nakamura K., Abe F., Hihara H., Taniguchi T., Myocardial cytoplasmic inclusions in chickens with haemangioma and lymphoid leukosis, Avian Pathol, 17, pp. 3-10, (1988); 
Ono M., Tsukamoto K., Tanimura N., Haritani M., Kimura K.M., Suzuki G., Okuda Y., Sato S., An epizootic of subcutaneous tumors associated with subgroup A avian leukosis/sarcoma virus in young layer chickens, Avian Dis, 48, pp. 940-946, (2004); 
Steffens W.L., Goodwin M.A., Ard M.B., Immunogold for detection of avian leukosis/sarcoma virus in formalin-fixed heart and kidney, Avian Pathol, 26, pp. 45-52, (1997)#FRF#
