#ITI#Determination of optimal conditions for thawing and diluting cell-bound CVI 988 Marek's disease vaccine and stability of the diluted vaccine#FTI#
#IRE#The cell-associated vaccine strain CVI 988, which is the active component of several commercial Marek's disease vaccines, normally is frozen and stored in liquid nitrogen. In order to ascertain good efficacy of the vaccine, it is crucial that the right procedures are followed for thawing and diluting of the virus. In the study presented here, ampoules containing the frozen product were taken from storage in liquid nitrogen and were thawed in a water bath at 27 C, which is similar to a lukewarm bath, and in a water bath at 37 C, with and without agitation. The effect of the thawing procedure on the live virus titer of the vaccine was investigated. Samples of thawed vaccine were diluted in diluent with different temperatures, and live virus titers were determined directly after dilution and after incubation of the diluted vaccine at different temperatures. The results show that directly after thawing in the water baths at 27 C and 37 C, with or without agitation, the live virus titers for CVI 988 were all in the same range. After incubation of the thawed virus at both temperatures for 15 min, the live virus titers were still in the same range. Decreases in live virus titers were observed after incubation for 4 hr. Live virus titration of the vaccine in diluent in different temperatures revealed that the highest titers were found with diluent at a temperature of 30 C to 37 C and the lowest titers in diluent at a temperature of 5 C. In addition, a combination product containing cell-associated CVI 988 and cell-associated herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT) was tested. For this combination product, the titers for HVT also were highest in diluent with a high temperature (i.e., 37 C), whereas the titers for CVI were highest in diluent at a temperature of 22 C. Both strains had relatively low titers in diluent at 5 C. After incubation of the diluted vaccine at the various temperatures for several hours, again, live virus titrations were done. Live virus titers were most stable with diluent at temperatures of 22 C. Vaccine virus diluted in diluent at 37 C could be stabilized by placing the diluted vaccine at 5 C directly after diluting. After evaluation of these data, the following is recommended. For thawing of the vaccine, a water bath at approximately 27 C, which is similar to a lukewarm bath, is preferred. For diluting the vaccine, diluent should be used at a temperature of 22 C or higher. If diluted in diluent at temperatures higher than 22 C, the diluted vaccine should be stored under cooling in order to avoid titer losses.#FRE#
#IPC#Live virus titer; Marek's disease vaccine; Stability; Thawing#FPC#
#IRF#Colwell W.M., Simmons D.G., Harris J.R., Fulp T.G., Carrozza J.H., Maag T.A., Influence of some physical factors on survival of Marek's disease vaccine virus, Avian Dis, 19, pp. 781-790, (1975); 
Halvorson D.A., Mitchell D.O., Loss of cell-associated Marek's disease vaccine titer during thawing, reconstitution and use, Avian Dis, 23, pp. 848-853, (1979); 
Landman W.J.M., Verschuren S.B.E., Titration of Marek's disease cell-associated vaccine virus (CVI 988) of reconstituted vaccine and vaccine ampoules from Dutch hatcheries, Avian Dis, 47, pp. 1458-1465, (2003); 
Powell P.C., Payne L.N., Marek's disease, Virus infections of birds, pp. 37-75, (1993); 
Rispens B.H., Van Vloten H., Mastenbroek N., Maas H.J.L., Control of Marek's disease in the Netherlands. I. Isolation of an avirulent Marek's disease strain (strain CVI 988) and its use in laboratory vaccination trials, Avian Dis, 16, pp. 108-125, (1972)#FRF#
