#ITI#After the outbreak: How the British Columbia commercial poultry industry recovered after H7N3 HPAI#FTI#
#IRE#In spring 2004, an outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), subtype H7N3, occurred in the Fraser Valley of British Columbia, Canada. The active outbreak lasted more than 90 days; 42 commercial poultry farms were identified as infected premises, and more than 17 million birds were culled. Through the depopulation of HPAI-positive farms and the strategic depopulation of adjacent test-negative farms, a total of 410 commercial poultry farms were emptied. The goals for the commercial poultry industry were to expedite restocking, reduce nonproductive downtime, negotiate equitable financial compensation, review and restructure emergency disease response plans, and identify and implement mitigation strategies. After the outbreak, multijurisdictional reviews identified the strengths and weaknesses of the outbreak control strategy. Lessons learned were incorporated into current emergency disease response protocols for both industry and government. The industry-led challenge to initial compensation values, especially for specialty poultry and breeder birds, resulted in a review of the federal Health of Animals Act. The British Columbia poultry industry, in collaboration with the British Columbia Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, developed an Enhanced Biosecurity Initiative that included the identification of mandatory on-farm biosecurity standards for commercial producers, an educational biosecurity self-assessment guide, and provisions for a producer self-quarantine to be enacted upon the first suspicion of disease.#FRE#
#IPC#Avian influenza; Biosecurity; British Columbia; Commercial poultry; Depopulation; H7N3; HPAI; Mitigation; Recovery#FPC#
#IRF#(2005); 
Bowes V.A., Ritchie S.J., Byrne S., Sojonky K., Bidulka J.J., Robinson J.H., Virus characterization, clinical presentation and pathology associated with H7N3 avian influenza in British Columbia broiler breeder chickens in 2004, Avian Dis, 4, pp. 928-934, (2004); 
Bowes V.A., Lessons learned in the BC avian influenza outbreak, Can. Poult, 91, pp. 14-17, (2004); 
Bowes V.A., Producer Self-Quarantine Protocol, 151, (2004); 
Etsell G., Halkai E., BC Poultry Industry Economic Recovery. In: Report, Canadian Poultry Industry Forum; Avian Influenza-Lessons Learned and Moving Forward, (2004); 
The British Columbia Industry Biosecurity/Emergency Response Strategic Plan for 2005-2007, (2005); 
Husdon R., Elwell L., Executive Summary. In: Report, Canadian Poultry Industry Forum; Avian Influenza-Lessons Learned and Moving Forward, (2004); 
Power C., The source and means of spread of the avian influenza virus in the Lower Fraser Valley of British Columbia during an outbreak in the winter of 2004; an interim report, (2005)#FRF#
