#ITI#Genetic characterization of a herpesvirus isolate from a superb starling (Lamprotornis superbus) as a psittacid herpesvirus genotype 1#FTI#
#IRE#Four genotypes of the psittacid herpesvirus (PsHV) cause Pacheco disease in parrots. Viruses that are serologically cross-reactive to the PsHVs have also been isolated from passerine species. DNA was amplified from a herpesvirus isolated from a superb starling (Lamprotornis superbus) with PsHV-specific primers and polymerase chain reaction. A comparison of the partial sequence of the UL 16 gene from this herpesvirus with sequences from viruses of known PsHV genotypes showed that the herpesvirus from the superb starling was a PsHV genotype 1 virus. This finding expands the range of birds that are known to be susceptible to PsHV genotype 1 infections and suggests that PsHVs should be considered as a differential in passerines with herpesvirus infections.#FRE#
#IPC#Genotype 1; Lamprotornis superbus; Psittacid herpesvirus; Superb starling#FPC#
#IRF#Blumenstein V., Isolierung und biologische Eigenschaften von sechs neuen Herpesviren aus verschiedenen Sperlingsvögeln (Passeriformes), Vet. Med., (1993); 
Charlton B.R., Barr B.C., Castro A.E., David P.L., Reynolds B.J., Herpes viral hepatitis in a toucan, Avian Dis., 34, pp. 787-790, (1990); 
Gravendyck M., Isolierung und biologische Eigenschaften eines neuen Herpesvirus aus einem Dreifarbenglanzstar (Lamprotornis superbus RÜPPELL, 1845) sowie Versuche zur Differenzierung von Herpesviren aus Passeriformes durch Restriktionsendonukleasen, Vet. Med., (1996); 
Gunther B.M.F., Klupp B.G., Gravendyck M., Lohr J.E., Mettenleiter T.C., Kaleta E.F., Comparison of the genomes of 15 avian herpesvirus isolates by restriction endonuclease analysis, Avian Pathol., 26, pp. 305-316, (1997); 
Tomaszewski E.K., Kaleta E.F., Phalen D.N., Molecular phylogeny of the psittacid herpesviruses causing Pacheco's disease: Correlation of genotype and phenotypic expression, J. Virol., 77, pp. 60-68, (2003)#FRF#
