#ITI#Comparative efficacy of enrofloxacin, oxytetracycline, and sulfadimethoxine for the control of morbidity and mortality caused by escherichia coli in broiler chickens#FTI#
#IRE#The purpose of the present study was to compare the ability of enrofloxacin, oxytetracycline, and sulfadimethoxine to reduce morbidity and mortality caused by Escherichia coli (colibacillosis) in broiler chickens. The chickens were raised in 80 pens (20 birds per pen) with 20 pens representing each treatment group under simulated commercial conditions that produced a colibacillosis challenge scenario. Each group of 20 randomized pens (replicates) was given one of four water treatments. Chickens that received enrofloxacin had significantly less mortality (P < 0.01), lower average gross pathology (colibacillosis) scores (P < 0.01), and better feed-conversion ratios (P < 0.05) than did chickens that received either oxytetracycline or no medication. Chickens that received enrofloxacin had significantly less mortality and lower pathology scores than those that received sulfadimethoxine and numerically lower feed conversion than the sulfadimethoxine group. Results from the present study show that enrofloxacin is superior to oxytetracycline and sulfadimethoxine for the control of morbidity and mortality caused by E. coli in broiler chickens. Our findings will help veterinarians choose and prescribe the most efficacious antimicrobial when treating colibacillosis.#FRE#
#IPC#Chicken; Enrofloxacin; Escherichia coli; Mortality; Oxytetracycline; Sulfadimethoxine#FPC#
#IRF#Allan B.J., Van Der Hurk J.V., Potter A.A., Characterization of Escherichia coli isolated from cases of avian colibacillosis, Can. J. Vet. Res., 57, pp. 146-151, (1993); 
Barnes H.J., Vaillancourt J., Gross W.B., Colibacillosis, Diseases of Poultry, 11th Ed., pp. 631-652, (2003); 
Blanco J.E., Blanco M., Mora A., Blanco J., Prevalence of bacterial resistance of quinolones and other antimicrobials among avian Escherichia coli strains isolated from septicemic and healthy chickens in Spain, J. Clin. Microbiol., 35, pp. 2184-2185, (1997); 
Carr D., Shaw D., Halvorson D.A., Rings B., Roepke D., Excessive mortality in market-age turkeys associated with cellulitis, Avian Dis., 40, pp. 736-741, (1996); 
Charleston B., Gate J.J., Aitken I.A., Stephan B., Froyman R., Comparison of the efficacies of three fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agents, given as continuous or pulsed water medication, against Escherichia coli infection in chickens, Antimicrob. Agents Chemother., 42, pp. 83-87, (1998); 
Ngeleka M., Brereton L., Brown G., Fairbrother J.M., Pathotypes of avian Escherichia coli as related to tsh-, pap-, pil-, and luc-DNA sequences, and antibiotic sensitivity of isolates from internal tissues and the cloacae of broilers, Avian Dis., 46, pp. 143-152, (2002); 
Russell S.M., The effect of airsacculitis on bird weights, uniformity, fecal contamination, processing errors and populations of Campylobacter spp. and Escherichia coli, Poultry Sci., 82, pp. 1326-1331, (2003)#FRF#
