#ITI#The role of disinfectant resistance of Salmonella enterica serotype enteritidis in recurring infections in Pennsylvania egg quality assurance program monitored flocks#FTI#
#IRE#The Pennsylvania egg quality assurance program (PEQAP) has made major gains in the reduction of Salmonella enterica serotype enteritidis (S. enteritidis). However, S. enteritidis continues to be a major food safety concern for the commercial egg laying industry. Despite intensive control efforts through PEQAP, some commercial egg layer houses still remain positive for S. enteritidis. The primary objective of this study was to determine whether S. enteritidis isolates obtained from historically environmentally S. enteritidis-positive houses were resistant to commonly used disinfectants. Archived S. enteritidis isolates (environmental, rodent, or egg) were compared with recently obtained isolates from the environment, rodents, or eggs from the same S. enteritidis-positive house. In addition, the isolates were compared with archived isolates from those premises that appeared to have eliminated S. enteritidis from their layer facilities. The official methods of the use-dilution analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists were used to evaluate each disinfectant product. Two phenolic, one quaternary ammonium, and one combination product containing quaternary ammonium and formaldehyde were evaluated, in addition to one sodium hypochlorite detergent. All products diluted according to the manufacturers' recommendations killed the S. enteritidis isolates in this test system. There was no difference in susceptibility or resistance to the disinfectants used between the isolates from those facilities that remained S. enteritidis-positive and those that appeared to have eliminated S. enteritidis from their facility.#FRE#
#IPC#Disinfectants; Salmonella enteritidis; Use-dilution#FPC#
#IRF#Disinfectants, Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, 14th Ed., pp. 65-77, (1984); 
Cremieux A., Fleurette J., Methods of testing disinfectants, Disinfection, Sterilization, and Preservation, 4th Ed., pp. 1009-1027, (1991); 
Davies R.H., Wray C., Persistence of Salmonella enteritidis in poultry units and poultry food, Br. Poult. Sci., 37, pp. 589-596, (1996); 
Davison S., Eckroade R.J., Benson C.E., Research in cleaning and disinfection of SE contaminated chickens houses, Proceedings of the 39th New England Poultry Health Conference, (1990); 
Eckroade R.J., Davison S., Benson C.E., Bryant E.S., Environmental contamination of pullet and layer houses with Salmonella enteritidis, Proc. Symposium on the Diagnosis and Control of Salmonella, pp. 14-20, (1992); 
Henzler D.J., Opitz H.M., The role of mice in the epizootiology of Salmonella enteritidis infection on chicken layer farms, Avian Dis., 36, pp. 625-631, (1992); 
Paulsen I.T., Littlejohn T.G., Radstrom P., Sundstrom L., Skold O., Swedberg G., Skurray R.A., The 3′ conserved segment of integrons contains a gene associated with multidrug resistance to antiseptics and disinfectants, Antimicrob. Agents Chemother., 37, pp. 761-768, (1993)#FRF#
