#ITI#Complement resistance, as determined by viable count and flow cytometric methods, and its association with the presence of iss and the virulence of avian Escherichia coli#FTI#
#IRE#Previous work in our labs has shown that avian Escherichia coli virulence is correlated with resistance to complement. Also, our studies have revealed that the presence of the increased serum survival gene (iss), known to contribute to the complement resistance and virulence of mammalian E. coli, may predict the virulent nature of an avian E. coli isolate. This relationship warrants further research, but further clarification of the relationship among virulence, complement resistance, and iss sequences requires use of complement susceptibility assays. Such assays, unfortunately, are labor-intensive, expensive, and difficult to perform. In the present study, the results of two complement susceptibility assays for 20 E. coli isolates, 10 incriminated in avian colibacillosis and 10 from the intestinal tracts of apparently healthy birds, were compared in an attempt to determine if flow cytometric analysis was a reasonable alternative to a viable count assay. In addition, the virulence of these isolates for chick embryos was determined, and each isolate was examined for the presence of iss using amplification techniques. The flow cytometric method was found to be repeatable for most isolates, and its results showed moderate agreement with those obtained through viable counts. All intestinal isolates of healthy birds proved avirulent using the embryo lethality assay; however, not all isolates from sick birds were demonstrated to be virulent. Possible explanations of these results include that the methods originally used to isolate these organisms failed to detect the illness-inciting strains or that the virulence of these strains had declined following initial isolation. Additionally, we must consider the possibility that the embryo lethality assay of virulence used here might not be sensitive enough to detect differences between these two groups of isolates. Also, it should be noted that virulence assays, such as the one used here, fail to account for predisposing host or environmental conditions, enabling a less virulent isolate to cause disease under natural conditions. Interestingly, the complement resistance of a strain was significantly associated with its lethality in embryos, and iss-containing isolates were significantly more likely than those lacking iss to be classified as complement-resistant and virulent. Such results, at least for this group of avian E. coli, suggest that there is a compelling but imperfect relationship among complement resistance, virulence, and the presence of iss. These results also suggest that the flow cytometric assay may be a reasonable alternative to the viable count method of determining complement resistance.#FRE#
#IPC#Complement resistance; Complement-resistance assays; Embryo lethality; Escherichia coli; Flow cytometry; Iss; Viable counts; Virulence#FPC#
#IRF#Binns M.M., Davies D.L., Hardy K.G., Cloned fragments of the plasmid CoIV, I-K 94 specifying virulence and serum resistance, Nature, 279, pp. 778-781, (1979); 
Chuba P.J., Leon M.A., Banerjee A., Palchaudhari S., Cloning and DNA sequence of plasmid determinant iss, coding for increased serum survival and surface exclusion, which has homology with lambda DNA, Mol. Gen. Genet., 216, pp. 287-292, (1989); 
Chuba P.J., Palchaudhuri S., Leon M.A., Contributions of traT and iss genes to the serum resistance phenotype of plasmid ColV2-K 94, FEMS Microbiol. Lett., 37, pp. 135-140, (1986); 
Daniel W.W., Applied nonparametric statistics, (1978); 
Gross W.G., Diseases due to Escherichia coli in poultry, Escherichia coli in domestic animals and humans, pp. 237-259, (1994); 
Horne S.M., Pfaff-McDonough S.J., Giddings C.W., Nolan L.K., Cloning and sequencing of the iss gene from a virulent avian Escherichia coli, Avian Dis., 44, pp. 179-184, (2000); 
Lee M.D., Wooley R.E., Brown J., Spears K.R., Nolan L.K., Shotts E.B. Jr., Comparison of a quantitative microtiter method, a quantitative automated method, and the plate-count method for determining microbial complement resistance, Avian Dis., 35, pp. 892-896, (1991); 
Moll A., Cabello F., Timmis K.N., Rapid assay for the determination of bacterial resistance to the lethal activity of serum, FEMS Microbiol. Lett., 6, pp. 273-276, (1970); 
Nolan L.K., Wooley R.E., Brown J., Spears K.R., Dickerson H.W., Dekich M., Comparison of a complement resistance test, a chicken embryo lethality test, and the chicken lethality test for determining virulence of avian Escherichia coli, Avian Dis., 36, pp. 395-397, (1992); 
Nolan L.K., Wooley R.E., Cooper R.K., Transposon mutagenesis used to study the role of complement resistance in the virulence of an avian Escherichia coli isolate, Avian Dis., 36, pp. 398-402, (1992); 
Pfaff-McDonough S.J., Horne S.M., Giddings C.W., Ebert J.O., Doetkott C., Smith M.H., Nolan L.K., Complement resistance-related traits among Escherichia coli isolates from apparently healthy birds and birds with colibacillosis, Avian Dis., 44, pp. 23-33, (2000); 
Steel R.G.D., Torrie J.H., Principles and procedures of statistics, 2nd ed., (1980); 
Stokes M.E., Davis C.S., Koch G.G., Categorical data analysis using the SAS system, (1995); 
Taylor P.W., Measurement of bactericidal activity of serum, The virulence of Escherichia coli, pp. 451-452, (1985); 
Virta M., Lineri S., Kankaanpaa P., Karp M., Peltonen K., Nuutila J., Lilius E.-M., Determination of complement-mediated killing of bacteria by viability staining and bioluminescence, Appl. Environ. Microbiol., 64, pp. 515-519, (1998); 
Wooley R.E., Brown J., Spears K.R., Nolan L.K., Comparison of chicken plasma and guinea pig serum in a quantitative microtiter method of determining microbial complement resistance, Avian Dis., 35, pp. 897-900, (1991); 
Wooley R.E., Gibbs P.S., Brown T.P., Maurer J.J., Chicken embryo lethality assay for determining the virulence of avian Escherichia coli isolates, Avian Dis., 44, pp. 318-324, (2000)#FRF#
