#ITI#Increasing crop yield in water scarce environments using locally available materials: An experience from semi-arid areas in Mpwapwa District, central Tanzania#FTI#
#IRE#This paper presents experience on working with farmers in water scarce environments in improving crop yield through the application of locally available materials in semi-arid areas of Mpwapwa District, central Tanzania. Findings are presented from the interdisciplinary study that involved documenting farmers perceptions and on-farm field experimentation. In the farmers' perceptions study, three different traditional tillage practices applied by smallholder farmers in the area were identified. These are traditional no-till (TNT), shallow tillage (ST) and ridging tillage (RT). The impacts of various tillage practices on soil fertility improvement, reduced weed infestation, soil moisture retention and crop yield were the main factors considered by farmers when selecting a particular tillage practice to apply. In two cropping seasons (i.e. 2006/7 and 2007/8) on-farm field experimentations were carried to test the effects of the three traditional tillage practices, manure and mulching practices on soil moisture retention and crop yield. Results from this experiment showed traditional no-till fields to have the lowest soil moisture retention capacity and the lowest infiltration flow rate as well as lowest crop yield compared to other studied practices. It was observed that improving the current tillage practices by the application of manure to both ST and RT, and mulching to ST at rates affordable to smallholder farmers as identified during perception study (i.e. 5 tons/ha for manure and 3 tons/ha for mulching materials) results in increased crop yield. When the grain yield is compared between traditional no-till and shallow tillage with manure and mulching practices, the yield increase is between 50 and 100%. It was concluded that crop yield in water scarce environments such as the semi-arid areas of Mpwapwa District can be increased by applying locally available materials such as cow manure and mulching at rates affordable to smallholder farmers. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Manure; Mulching materials; Ridging tillage; Shallow tillage; Tanzania; Traditional no-till#FPC#
#IRF#Ahuja L.R., Quantifying agricultural management effects on soil properties and processes, Geoderma, 116, pp. 1-2, (2003); 
Soil Map of the World-Revised Legend, (1990); 
De Pauw E., Soils, Physiography and Agroecological Zones in Tanzania. Ministry of Agriculture Dar-es-Salaam, (1984); 
Gachene C.K., Kimaru K.G., Soil fertility and Land Productivity Technical Handbook No. 30, (2003); 
Gardner W.H., Water content, Methods of Soil Analysis. Part 1. Physical and Mineralogical Methods. 2nd ed., pp. 635-662, (1986); 
Gicheru P.T., Gachene C.K.K., Mbuvi J.P., Effects of soil management practices and tillage systems on soil moisture conservation and maize yield on a Sandy Loam in Semiarid Kenya, Journal of Sustainable Agriculture., 27, 3, pp. 77-92, (2005); 
Ghuza A.C., Effects of tillage on soil microrelief, surface depression storage and soil water storage, Soil and Tillage Research, 76, pp. 105-114, (2003); 
Gurnah A.M., Effects of weed competition at different stages of growth on the yield of taro, Field Crops Research, 10, pp. 283-289, (1985); 
Hatibu N., Soil water management in semi arid Tanzania, Final Technical Report, (1995); 
Heng L.K., Asseng S., Mejahed K., Rusan M., Optimizing wheat productivity in two rain-fed environments of the West Asia-North Africa region using a simulation model, European Journal of Agronomy., 26, 2, pp. 121-129, (2007); 
Soil classification of Mpwapwa district Tanzania, (2006); 
Mowo G.J., Janssen H.H., Oenema O., German L.A., Mrema J.P., Shemdoe R.S., Soil fertility evaluation and management by smallholder farmer communities in northern Tanzania. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment, 116, pp. 47-59, (2006); 
Nerson H., Weed competition in muskmelon and its effects on yield and fruit quality, Crop Protection, 8, 6, pp. 439-442, (1989); 
Papworth L., Tillage Effects on Soil Moisture, (2004); 
Peruzzi A., Ginanni M., Fontanelli M., Raffaelli M., Barberi P., Innovative strategies for on-farm weed management in organic carrot, Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems, 22, pp. 246-259, (2007); 
Shemdoe R.S., Kikula I.S., Van Damme P., Traditional tillage systems as drought adaptation strategies of smallholder farmers: The case of semi-arid Central Tanzania#FRF#
