#ITI#Field research on the performance of various drainage materials in Lithuania#FTI#
#IRE#Field evaluation of the performance of a drainage system or of various drainage materials is a long-lasting research, very often with disappointing results. These disappointing results stem either from a too wide a spread of the field data, or one or more necessary parameters which were not measured, or an insufficient knowledge of the flow occurrence in the vicinity of the drain resulting in a wrong interpretation and evaluation of the research findings. Yet, a correct evaluation of the performance of a drainage system is of primary importance to ascertain the real value of a drainage system or to compare various drainage materials. As a result of the wide spread of field data within a measuring season, a large amount of data from several seasons is required to obtain reliable results. From discharge and total head loss measurements a second-degree polynomial results which only permits a determination of whether the design criteria are met. The similarity with Hooghoudt's equation allows the determination of soil hydraulic conductivity and the equivalent depth of the impervious layer. With this data the drain spacing can be checked. Too wide a spacing can be the cause of malfunctioning of a drainage system, but the drainage materials can also affect its performance. To evaluate or compare drainage materials it is necessary to measure the so-called approach-flow head loss in the vicinity of the drain. The relationship between discharge and approach-flow head loss should theoretically be linear and the regression coefficient gives the approach-flow resistance. However, the relationship depends to a large extent on the approach-flow occurrence in the vicinity of the drain. For non-linear relationships, the approach-flow resistance can be estimated from the slope of the tangent line, which tends to a constant value at greater discharges for flow patterns covering the whole drain circumference. The approach-flow resistance depends on the hydraulic conductivity of the soil and does not permit a direct comparison of various drainage materials. Therefore, the approach-flow constant or the dimensionless approach-flow resistance is calculated. This parameter is related to the material itself and to the installation conditions reflected in the hydraulic conductivity of the trench backfill. Consequently the comparison of the various drainage materials includes the trench backfill. The approach-flow head loss fraction is that part of the total head loss which is dissipated by the approach-flow. The relationship between approach-flow head loss and total head loss should theoretically be and is, indeed, linear so that the slope of the regression line gives the approach-flow head loss fraction. This parameter combines the influence of drainage material and flow pattern so that real flow situations in the vicinity of the drain, which are not necessarily the same for all materials, can be compared. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Approach-flow head loss; Approach-flow head loss fraction; Approach-flow resistance; Drain discharge; Drainage materials; Drainage performance; Total head loss#FPC#
#IRF#Aloseviciene G., Air temperature, Reference Book of Lithuanian Climate, (1992); 
Drained Lands and Drainage Structures, (2002); 
Cavelaars J.C., Vlotman W.F., Spoor G., Subsurface drainage systems, Drainage Principles and Applications, 2nd Ed., pp. 827-930, (1994); 
Ceicys J., Agricultural Land Reclamation. Draining, pp. 191-193, (1965); 
Dieleman P.J., Trafford B.D., Drainage Testing, (1984); 
Dierickx W., Electrolytic Analogue Study of the Effect of Openings and Surround of Various Permeabilities on the Performance of Field Drainage Pipes, (1980); 
Guidelines for Soil Profile Description, 3rd Ed. (Revised), (1990); 
Hooghoudt S.B., Bijdragen tot de kennis van eenige natuurkundige grootheden van den grond. 7. Algemeene beschouwing van het probleem van de detailontwatering en de infiltratie door middel van parallel loopende drains, greppels, slooten en kanalen, Versl. Land. Onderz., 46, 14, pp. 515-707, (1940); 
Janert H., Lehrbuch der Bodenmelioration, 2, (1961); 
Klimiene V., Buitkuviene S.-M., Rainfall, Reference Book of Lithuanian Climate, (1991); 
Morkunas V., Situation in land reclamation in Lithuania, Agro Technical Systems for Water Managemtn, (2002); 
Instruction for Design of Land Reclamation Projects. Part I. Drainage, (1966); 
Instruction for Design of Land Reclamation Projects. Part I. Drainage, 5th Ed., (1984); 
Rimidis A., Dierickx W., Evaluation of subsurface drainage performance in Lithuania, Agric. Water Manage., 59, 1, pp. 15-31, (2003); 
Rimidis A., Kozhushko L., The technology of installing voluminous organic filters, Land Management and Reclamation, 2, pp. 41-45, (1995); 
The rules for the design of drainage as land reclamation measure, Normative Documents of Land Reclamation, 26, (2000); 
Smilgevicius J., Land reclamation works and its funding, Land Management and Hydro-Engineering, 1, (2003); 
Stuyt L.C.P.M., Dierickx W., Martinez Beltran J., Materials for Subsurface Land Drainage Systems, (2000); 
Zelionka L., The Areas Indispensable to Drain in Lithuania SSR, pp. 145-167, (1967)#FRF#
