#ITI#Emitter and filter tests for wastewater reuse by drip irrigation#FTI#
#IRE#Agriculture is the main user of water in Italy, as in most regions of the world. Particularly in Mediterranean regions, where it is more difficult to meet the agricultural water demand with conventional resources, wastewater reuse represents a viable option. Drip irrigation is particularly suitable for wastewater reuse because it minimises the health risks to farmers and product consumers due to contact with the wastewater. The performance of drip irrigation systems using wastewater is mainly limited by emitter clogging, and this discourages farmers from introducing it. The paper gives the results of experimental trials on the behaviour of six kinds of filters (gravel media, disk and screen) and four types of drip emitters (vortex and labyrinth) using five kinds of municipal wastewater that have not undergone previous advanced treatment. The performance of the emitters and filters tested depends on the quality of the wastewater: total suspended solids and organic matter content influence the percentage of totally clogged emitters, the mean discharge emitted, the emission uniformity coefficient, and the operating time of the filter between cleaning operations. Vortex emitters were more sensitive to clogging than labyrinth emitters. The gravel media filter guaranteed the best performance, but the disk filter, which is cheaper and simpler to manage, assured performance similar to that of the gavel media filter. The test showed the importance of the technology used in manufacturing disk filters. Screen filters were shown to be unsuitable for use with wastewater, with the exception of diluted and settled wastewater. The theoretical discharge of filters, suggested by the manufacturers for clean water, is not adequate for wastewater of the kind used in the trials (suspended solids greater than 78 mg/l and BOD5 more than 25 mg/l of O2). The operating times of the filters between cleaning operations, less than 1 h in most trials, suggest the use of automatic cleaning systems. The existing clogging risk classifications proposed for clean water can only be considered reliable for wastewater when labyrinth emitters and gravel or good quality disk filters (such as Arkal) are used; they are not adequate for vortex emitters or screen filters. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Drip irrigation; Emitters; Filers; Reclaimed wastewater; Water quality#FPC#
#IRF#Al-Jamal M.S., Sammis T.W., Mexal J.G., Picchioni G.A., Zachritz W.H., A growth-irrigation scheduling model for wastewater use in forest production, Agric. Water Manage., 56, pp. 57-79, (2002); 
Al-Shreideh B., Reuse of treated waste water in irrigation and agriculture as a non-conventional resource, Advanced Short Course on Water Saving and Increasing Water Productivity: Challenges and Options, (2001); 
Angelakis A.N., Marecos Do Monte M.H.F., Bontoux L., Asano T., The status of wastewater reuse practice in the Mediterranean basin: Need for guidelines, Water Res., 33, 10, pp. 2201-2217, (1999); 
Bahri A., Agricultural reuse of wastewater and global water management, Water Sci. Technol., 40, 45, pp. 339-346, (1999); 
Barbagallo S., Cirelli G.L., Indelicato S., Wastewater reuse in Italy, Proceedings of the First World Water Congress of the International Water Association, pp. 56-63, (2000); 
Barbagallo S., Capra A., Piccione G., Scicolone B., Irrigazione a goccia con acque reflue urbane. Prove di erogatori e di filtri, Proceedings of the Quinta Conferencia Cientifica Internacional UNICA, (2002); 
Bonomo L., Nurizzo C., Rolle E., Advanced wastewater treatment and reuse: Related problems and perspectives in Italy, Water Sci. Technol., 40, 45, pp. 21-28, (1999); 
Boswell J.M., Manuale Per la Microirrigazione (James Hardie Micro-Irrigation Design Manual), (1993); 
Capra A., Li Destri Nicosia O., Tamburino V., Expérience de subirrigation au moyen d'eaux usées, Proceedings of the 10th International Congress of Agricultural Engineering, pp. 18-28, (1984); 
Capra A., Scicolone B., Water quality and distribution uniformity in drip/trickle irrigation systems, J. Agric. Eng. Res., 70, pp. 355-365, (1998); 
Capra A., Scicolone B., Wastewater reuse by drip irrigation, Proceedings of the First International Conference on Environmental Health Risk, pp. 153-161, (2001); 
Friedler E., Water reuse - An integral part of water resources management: Israel as a case study, Water Policy, 3, pp. 29-39, (2001); 
Hamdy A., Agricultural water demand management: A must for water saving, Advanced Short Course on Water Saving and Increasing Water Productivity: Challenges and Options, (2001); 
Haruvy N., Wastewater for agriculture economic and environmental perspectives, Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Water and Irrigation, pp. 64-72, (1996); 
Keller J., Bliesner R.D., Sprinkle and Trickle Irrigation, (1990); 
Keller J., Karmeli D., Trickle Irrigation Design, (1975); 
Nakayama F.S., Bucks D.A., Water quality in drip/trickle irrigation: A review, Irrig. Sci., 12, 4, pp. 187-192, (1991); 
Oron G., Demalach J., Hoffman Z., Manor Y., Effect of effluent quality and application method on agricultural productivity and environmental control, Water Sci. Technol., 26, 78, pp. 1593-1601, (1996); 
Pescod M.B., Wastewater treatment and use in agriculture, FAO Irrig. Drainage Pap., 47, (1992); 
Ragab R., Policies and strategies on water resources in the European Mediterranean region, Proceedings of the Water and Irrigation Development International Conference, pp. 37-55, (2001); 
Scischa A., Ravina I., Sagi G., Paz E., Yechiely Z., Alkon A., Schramm G., Sofer Z., Marcu A., Lev Y., Clogging control in drip irrigation systems using reclaimed wastewater - The platform trials, Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Water and Irrigation, pp. 104-114, (1996); 
Steward H.T.L., Allender E., Sandell P., Kube P., Irrigation of tree plantations with recycled water in Australia: Research developments and care studies, The Forest Alternative for Treatment and Utilization of Municipal and Industrial Wastes, pp. 431-441, (1986)#FRF#
