#ITI#Estimating the potential gains from water markets: A case study from Tunisia#FTI#
#IRE#Water markets can improve water use efficiency through the transfer of water to users who can obtain the highest marginal return from using it. Existing water markets are implemented among farmers or between farmers and urban water companies or hydropower companies. Several studies have shown that farmers may benefit from trading water mainly in countries where water scarcity is increasing and new water supply projects are either very costly or not possible because of environmental concerns. This paper estimates the potential benefits and losses of implementing water market among farmers and between farmers and urban water company in Tunisia. We used linear programming to examine four separate farm models and an aggregate model. The method is applied to an irrigation area of 4500 ha in Northern Tunisia. Results indicate that water trading among farmers would be quite limited and would have a minor impact on farmers' income. In contrast, the market among farmers and the urban water company offers higher volumes of water trades to urban users and helps increase farmers' profitability by up to 7.9%. The sale of water to the urban company is accompanied by a decrease in occasional labor by as much as 34.8% and a decrease of up to 17.6% in farmers' expenditures for inputs and machinery. Additionally, results obtained in this paper show that inter-year storage of irrigation water may be more advantageous than selling water to the urban utility. Whether farmers would opt to sell water or inter-temporarily store it would depend on the establishment of water rights and the empowerment of farmers. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Carryover storage; Linear programming; Urban water; Water rights#FPC#
#IRF#Amador F., Sumpsi J.M., Romero C., A non-interactive methodology to assess farmers' utility functions: An application to large farms in Andalusia, Spain, Eur. Rev. Agric. Econ., 25, pp. 92-109, (1998); 
Berbel J., Gomez-Limon J.A., The impact of water pricing policy in Spain: An analysis of three irrigated areas, Agric. Water Manag., 43, pp. 219-238, (2000); 
Rapport d' Activites, (2000); 
Plan Guide Relatif á la Mise en Oeuvre de Gestion en Temps Reel des Resources en Eau en Tunisie, (2001); 
Annaire des Statistiques, (2002); 
Fouzai A., Zekri S., Estimation of a Demand Function for Irrigation Water at Bouhertma, (2002); 
Garrido A., Economic analysis of water markets in the Spanish agricultural sector: Can they provide substantial benefits?, Markets for Water: Potential and Performance, (1998); 
Gomez-Limon J.A., Berbel J., Multicriteria analysis of derived water demand functions: A Spanish case study, Agric. Syst., 63, pp. 49-72, (2000); 
Hamilton J.R., Whittlesey N.K., Halverson P., Interruptible water markets in the pacific northwest, Am. J. Agric. Econ., 71, pp. 63-75, (1989); 
Hearne R.R., Easter W., Economics and financial gains from water markets in Chili, Agric. Econ., 15, pp. 187-199, (1997); 
Horbulyk T.M., Lo L.J., Welfare gains from potential water markets in Alberta, Canada, Markets for Water: Potential and Performance, (1998); 
Romero C., Rehman T., Multiple Criteria Analysis for Agricultural Decision, (1989); 
Tsur Y., Dinar A., Doukkali R., Terry R., Efficiency and equity implications of water pricing: Evidence from international experience, Irrigation Water Policies: Micro and Macro Considerations, (2002); 
Young R., Measuring economic benefits for water investments and policies, World Bank Technical Paper, 338, (1996); 
Zekri S., Easter K.W., Institutional and Organizational Reforms in LDCs: Management Transfers, Private Managers and Water Markets, (2003)#FRF#
