#ITI#Evaluation of quantity and quality of irrigation water at Gadowa irrigation project in Murzuq basin, southwest Libya#FTI#
#IRE#Libya is considered as one of those countries having limited renewable water resources because most parts of the country are either semi-arid or arid. The consequent over-reliance on ground water for meeting the ever-increasing water demand has resulted in the excessive depletion of the fresh ground water stock. The situation is being exacerbated by the lack of adequate natural recharge to replenish the water withdrawn from the various aquifers. The study reported in this paper focused on the Murzuq basin located in southwest Libya. The basin provides domestic water and serves the Gadowa irrigation project. The continued water withdrawal from the aquifer system over the last three decades has resulted in significant lowering of the ground water table. In this study, data on water quality, quantity and ground water levels from several water wells serving the Gadowa irrigation project were analyzed, together with the historic water use patterns over the past twenty years at the Gadowa irrigation project. The result of the analysis shows that there is scope for significant improvement in the efficiency of water utilization, which if achieved should enhance the overall sustainability of ground water use in the Murzuq basin. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Chemical characteristics; Ground water; Irrigation; Jet stream method; Libya; Murzuq basin; Water use efficiency#FPC#
#IRF#Alghariani S.A., Future perspectives of irrigation in southern Mediterranean region: policies and management issues, Proceedings of the International Conference on Water Resources Management in Arid Regions 23-27 March, vol. 4, pp. 313-320, (2002); 
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater. 16th ed., (1985); 
Anderson K.E., Water Well Handbook. 4th ed., (1977); 
Ayers R.S., Westcot D.W., Water quality for agriculture, FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper 29 Rev. 1, (1985); 
Chimonides S., Irrigation management under water shortage conditions, Water Resources Management under Drought or Water Shortage Conditions, pp. 73-78, (1995); 
Doorenbos J., Pruitt W.O., Crop water requirements, Irrigation and Drainage Paper 24, (1977); 
El-Chair M.M., Saline water in Murzuq basin, J. Saharian Stud., 1, pp. 3-21, (1991); 
Eaton F.M., Significance of carbonate in irrigation waters, Soil Sci., 69, pp. 123-133, (1950); 
Gray N.F., Drinking Water Quality, (1994); 
Israelsen O.W., Hansen V.E., Irrigation Principles and Practices, (1965); 
McMahon T.A., Hydrologic design for water use, Handbook of Hydrology, (1993); 
Pallas P., Water resources of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Second Symposium on the Geology of Libya, vol. II, pp. 539-594, (1980); 
Prashar C.R.K., Barkoli A.A., Wheat Yield Responses to Water and its Efficiency of Production, Fezzan Region Libya, (1981); 
Schwab G.O., Fangmeier D.D., Elliot W.J., Frevert R.K., Soil and Water Conservation Engineering, (1993)#FRF#
