#ITI#Environmental decision support system development for seasonal wetland salt management in a river basin subjected to water quality regulation#FTI#
#IRE#Seasonally managed wetlands in the Grasslands Basin on the west-side of California's San Joaquin Valley provide food and shelter for migratory wildfowl during winter months and sport for waterfowl hunters during the annual duck season. Surface water supply to these wetlands contain salt which, when drained to the San Joaquin River (SJR) during the annual drawdown period, can negatively impact water quality and cause concern to downstream agricultural riparian water diverters. Recent environmental regulation, limiting discharges salinity to the SJR and primarily targeting agricultural non-point sources, now also targets return flows from seasonally managed wetlands. Real-time water quality management has been advocated as a means of continuously matching salt loads discharged from agricultural, wetland and municipal operations to the assimilative capacity of the SJR. Past attempts to build environmental monitoring and decision support systems (EDSS's) to implement this concept have enjoyed limited success for reasons that are discussed in this paper. These reasons are discussed in the context of more general challenges facing the successful implementation of a comprehensive environmental monitoring, modelling and decision support system for the SJR Basin. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Decision support; Modelling; Monitoring; Salinity; Wetlands#FPC#
#IRF#Denzer R., Generic integration of environmental decision support systems-state-of-the-art, Environmental Modelling & Software, 20, 10, pp. 1217-1223, (2005); 
Fredrickson L.H., Taylor T.S., Management of Seasonally Flooded Impoundments for Wildlife. Resource Publication 148, (1982); 
Janssen R., Goosen H., Verhoeven M.L., Verhoeven J.T.A., Omtzigt A.Q.A., Maltby E., Decision support for integrated wetland management, Environmental Modelling & Software, 20, 2, pp. 215-229, (2005); 
Poch M., Comas J., Rodriguez-Roda I., Sanchez-Marre M., Cortes U., Designing and building real environmental decision support systems, Environmental Modelling & Software, 19, 9, pp. 857-873, (2004); 
Prato T., Modeling ecological impacts of landscape change, Environmental Modelling & Software, 20, 10, pp. 1359-1363, (2005); 
Quinn N.W.T., Hanna W.M., A decision support system for adaptive real-time management of seasonal wetlands in California, Environmental Modelling and Software, 18, 6, pp. 503-511, (2003); 
Quinn N.W.T., Karkoski J., Real-time management of water quality in the San Joaquin River Basin, California, American Water Resources Association, 34, 6, (1998)#FRF#
