#ITI#The impact of water-pricing policy on the demand for water resources by farmers in Ghana#FTI#
#IRE#Water scarcity has become a worldwide phenomenon as a result of climate change. For that reason most countries are adopting various measures to reduce the impact of water scarcity on their agricultural sector and Ghana is no exception. Ghana's agricultural sector is the backbone of the rural economy in the country. The agricultural sector employs about 90 percent of the rural population and contributes extensively to the GDP of the country. But, low productivity and inefficient water use have resulted in a significant threat to the livelihoods of the rural population. The paper used a programing model named MATA (Multi-Analysis Tool for the Agricultural Sector) to achieve the stated objectives. The main objective of the study was to find out the impact of water-pricing policy on the demand for water resources by the farmers in relation to their cropping activities and income. The results of the study indicated that water-pricing policy has a negative impact on the demand for water resources in Ghana. But this impact happens only when water prices are increased significantly. However, if water prices are high it has a negative impact on cropping activities, farmers' income, employment and crop varieties. Hence the study recommends that in order to at least reduce water wastage in the sector, it be proposed that a price (around 2cedi/m3) might be of significance in order to make farmers conscious of the scarcity of water resources, and to persuade them to adopt water saving technologies without affecting crop distribution. The study also recommends that water-pricing policy should not be used as a policy tool on its own but should be used together with other water saving policies in order to achieve the best results. © 2015 Elsevier B.V.#FRE#
#IPC#Agricultural policy; Agricultural risk; Economic impact; Irrigated agriculture; Water demand; Water pricing#FPC#
#IRF#Abbes K., Mahjoubi R., Flichman G., Impact des formulestarifairesbinÔmessur le systèmeirrigué de la bassevallé de la Medjerda (Tunisie), Paper presented at the Euro-Mediterranean workshop on "Les instruments économiqueset la modernisationdespérimètresirrigués", pp. 21-22, (2005); 
Ahmed M., Water pricing and marketing in the near east: policy issues and options, Water Policy, 2, 3, pp. 229-242, (2000); 
Berbel J., Gomez-Limon J.A., Impact of water pricing policy in Spain: an analysis of three irrigated areas, Agric. Water Manage., 43, pp. 219-238, (2000); 
Chebil A., Frija A., Thabet C., Irrigation water pricing between governmental policies and farmers' perception: impact for green-houses horticultural production in Teboulba (Tunisa), Agric. Econ. Rev., 11, 2, pp. 44-54, (2010); 
De Frahan H., Buysse B., Polome J., Fernagut P., Harmignie B., Lauwers O., Van Huylenboreck L., Van Meensel G.J., Positive mathematical programming for agricultural and environmental policy analysis: review and practice, Handbook of Operations Research in Natural Resources, 99, 1, pp. 129-154, (2007); 
De Failure C., Perry C., Why is irrigation water demand inelastic at low price ranges?, Conférencesur les politiquesd'irrgation, considerations mico- et macro-économiques, pp. 15-17, (2002); 
Deybe D., Can agricultural sector models be a tool for policy analysis? An application for the case of Burkina Faso, Agric. Syst., 58, pp. 367-380, (1998); 
Erwidodo E., Gerard F., Impact of Agricultural Trade Liberalization on Food Crop Production and Farm Income: The Case of Java's Lowland, (1997); 
Reforming water resources policy-a guide to methods, Process and Practices-FAO Irrigation and Draiange Paper, (1995); 
Faulkner J., Et al., Water use and productivity of two small reservoir irrigation schemes in Ghana's upper east region, Irrig. Drain., 57, pp. 151-163, (2008); 
Frederick K.D., Balancing Water Demands with Supplies, The Role of Management, (1993); 
Gerard F.I., Measuring the Effects of Trade Liberalisation:Multilevel Analysis Tool for Agriculture, (1998); 
Gomez-Limon J., Berbel J.A., The impact of water pricing in spain: an analysis of three irrigated areas, Agric. Water Manag., pp. 219-238, (1999); 
Gomez-Limon J.A., Riesgo L., Irrigation water pricing: differential impacts on irrigated farms, Agric. Econ., 31, pp. 47-66, (2004); 
The State of the Ghanaian Economy, (2013); 
Kasei R., Diekkuger B., Leemhuis C., Drought frequency in the Volta Basin of West Africa, Sustainability Sci., 5, pp. 89-97, (2009); 
Louhichi K., Flichman G., Zekri S., Un modèlebioéconomique pour analyserl'impact de la politique de conservation des eauxet des sols, Le casd'une exploitation agricoletunisienne. EconomieRurale, No 252, (1999); 
Louw D.B., Kassier W.E., The Costs and Benefit of Water Demand Management, (2002); 
Markowitz H., Portfolio Selection: Efficient Diversification of Investment, (1959); 
Food and Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP), (2010); 
Food and Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP), (2012); 
Molle F., Berkoff J., Water pricing in irrigation: mapping the debate in the light of experience, Irrigation Water Pricing: The Gap between Theory and Practice. Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture, pp. 21-93, (2007); 
Mualla W., Salman M., Progress in water demand management in Syria, Water Demand Management in the Mediterranean Region Conference, (2002); 
Reddy V., Water pricing as a demand management option: potentials, problems and prospects, Water Sector Perspective Plan for India: Potential Contributions from Demand Management in Irrigation. Strategic Analysis of National River Linking Project of India. Series 3" Ed. Rathinasamy Maria Saleth, pp. 25-46, (2009); 
Sadiddin A., Agricultural Policy Impact on the Stability of Farm Income and Water Use in the North-East of the Syrian Arab Republic [Tesi di dottorato], (2009); 
Water Resource Management Policy Paper, (1993); 
World Bank Water Resources Sector Strategy: Strategic Directions for World Bank Engagement, (2003)#FRF#
