#ITI#A European irrigation map for spatially distributed agricultural modelling#FTI#
#IRE#We present a pan-European irrigation map based on regional European statistics, a European land use map and a global irrigation map. The map provides spatial information on the distribution of irrigated areas per crop type which allows determining irrigated areas at the level of spatial modelling units. The map is a requirement for a European scale assessment of the impacts of irrigated agriculture on water resources based on spatially distributed modelling of crop growth and water balance. The irrigation map was compiled in a two step procedure. First, irrigated areas were distributed to potentially irrigated crops at a regional level (European statistical regions NUTS3), combining Farm Structure Survey (FSS) data on irrigated area, crop-specific irrigated area for crops whenever available, and total crop area. Second, crop-specific irrigated area was distributed within each statistical region based on the crop distribution given in our land use map. A global map of irrigated areas with a 5′ resolution was used to further constrain the distribution within each NUTS3 based on the density of irrigated areas. The constrained distribution of irrigated areas as taken from statistics to a high resolution dataset enables us to estimate irrigated areas for various spatial entities, including administrative, natural and artificial units, providing a reasonable input scenario for large-scale distributed modelling applications. The dataset bridges a gap between global datasets and detailed regional data on the distribution of irrigated areas and provides information for various assessments and modelling applications. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Agriculture; Continental scale; Crops; Europe; FSS; GMIA; Irrigated area; Irrigation; MIRCA; Modelling; Water management#FPC#
#IRF#Alcamo J., Doll P., Henrichs T., Kaspar F., Lehner B., Rosch T., Siebert S., Development and testing of the WaterGAP 2 global model of water use and availability, Hydrological Sciences Journal, 48, pp. 339-348, (2003); 
Allen R.G., Pereira L.S., Raes D., Smith M., Crop evapotranspiration, Guidelines for computing crop water requirements, (1998); 
Bouraoui F., Aloe A., European agrochemicals geospatial loss estimator: Model development and applications, EUR-Scientific and technical research series, (2007); 
Doll P., Kaspar F., Alcamo J., Computation of global water availability and water use at the scale of large drainage basins, Mathematische Geologie, 4, pp. 111-118, (1999); 
Doll P., Siebert S., Global modelling of irrigation water requirements, Water Resources Research, 38, 4, (2002); 
Fortes P.S., Platonov A.E., Pereira L.S., GISAREG-a GIS based irrigation scheduling simulation model to support improved water use, Agricultural Water Management, 77, pp. 159-179, (2005); 
Goubanova K., Li L., Extremes in temperature and precipitation around the Mediterranean basin in an ensemble of future climate scenario simulations, Global and Planetary Change, 57, 12, pp. 27-42, (2007); 
Grizzetti B., Bouraoui F., Aloe A., Spatialised European Nutrient Balance, EUR Scientific and Technical Research Series, (2007); 
Climate change 2007: The physical science basis-summary for policymakers, Contribution of WGI to the 4th Assessment Report, (2007); 
Maton L., Leenhardt D., Goulard M., Bergez J.-E., Assessing the irrigation strategies over a wide geographical area from structural data about farming systems, Agricultural systems, 86, pp. 293-311, (2005); 
Monfreda C., Ramankutty N., Foley J.A., Farming the planet. Part 2: the geographic distribution of crop areas, yields, physiological types, and NPP in the year 2000, Global Biogeochemical Cycles, 22, (2008); 
Mulligan D., Bouraoui F., Grizzetti B., Aloe A., Dusart J., An Atlas of pan-European data for investigating the fate of agrochemicals in terrestrial ecosystems. JRC-Institute for Environment and Sustainability. EUR Scientific and Technical Research Series, (2006); 
Pereira L.S., Teodoro P.R., Rodriguez P.N., Teixeira J.L., Irrigation scheduling simulation: the model ISAREG, Tools for Drought Mitigation in Mediterranean Regions, pp. 161-180, (2003); 
Portmann F., Siebert S., Bauer C., Doll P., Global dataset of monthly growing areas of 26 irrigated crops, (2008); 
Rodriguez Diaz J.A., Weatherhead E.K., Knox J.W., Camacho E., Climate change impacts on irrigation water requirements in the Guadalquivir river basin in Spain, Regional Environmental Change, 7, pp. 149-159, (2007); 
Statistisches Bundesamt, 2004. Statistik der Wasserversorgung in der Landwirtschaft 2002, (2004); 
Thenkabail P.S., Biradar C.M., Turral H., Noojipady P., Li Y.J., Vithanage J., Dheeravath V., Velpuri M., Schull M., Cai X.L., Dutta R., An irrigated area map of the world (1999) derived from remote sensing, Research Report, 105, (2006); 
Williams J.R., The EPIC model, Computer Models of Watershed Hydrology. 909-1000, (1995)#FRF#
