#ITI#Optimizing operational strategies of scavenger wells in lower Indus Basin of Pakistan#FTI#
#IRE#In the lower Indus Basin of Pakistan, where rainfall is low and water use is high, more than 350 scavenger wells were installed under the left bank outfall drain stage-1 (LBOD-1) with a capital cost of US$ 12.75 million to provide drainage and to recover fresh groundwater mainly for irrigation purposes. This paper highlights the environmental issues in the pumping and disposal of saline groundwater for sustainability of scavenger wells. In this paper, the hydraulic performance of two scavenger wells (PSW1A and PSW2) representing different hydro-geological conditions in the lower Indus Basin was evaluated using two numerical models (MODFLOW and MT3D), and changes in the operational strategies of such wells for the concerned hydro-geological conditions have been recommended. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Daily operating factor; Environmental issues; Lower Indus Basin; Pakistan; Recovery ratio; Scavenger wells#FPC#
#IRF#Ali G., Study of Upconing of Fresh and Saline Groundwater Interface under Scavenger Wells, (2000); 
Aliewi A.S., Numerical Simulation of the Behavior of the Fresh/saline Water Transition Zone Around a Scavenger Well, (1993); 
Aliewi A.S., Miqdadi I., Mushtaha A., Health impact of raw sewage disposal and the use of scavenger wells to control groundwater pollution in Gaza, Palestine, Rev. Biol. Biotechnol., 2, 1, pp. 29-37, (2002); 
Beeson S., Carruthers R., Wyness A.J., Scavenger wells. 2. Field investigations and monitoring, Proceedings of the 12th SWIM, (1992); 
Bradford M.G., The impact of scavenger wells on the environment in Nawabshah district, Proceedings of the National Conference on the Impact of Drainage on Environment: Problems and Solutions, pp. 153-162, (1997); 
Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage-1 Project: Scavenger Well Studies and Pilot Project, Vol. 1 (Draft Final): Summary, 1, (1990); 
Hasnain S.M., Jones C.R.C., Bradford M.G., Proceedings of the National Conference on the Impact of Drainage on Environment: Problems and Solutions, pp. 59-68, (1997); 
Jones C.R.C., Van Wonderen J.J., Exploitation of fresh groundwater lenses: Implementation of scavenger wells in Pakistan, Proceedings of the International Conference on Groundwater - Drought, Pollution and Management, (1994); 
Kitching R., Shearer T.R., Report on Computer Simulation of Saline Intrusion Associated with Scavenger Well Operation in Pakistan, (1991); 
Kumbhar R.A., Samoon H.A., Ansari A.K., Control of groundwater pollution by scavenger wells, Proceedings of the Fifth International Symposium on the Sediment Quality Assessment, (2002); 
McDonald M.C., Harbaugh A.W., MODFLOW: A Modular Three-dimensional Finite Difference Groundwater Flow Model, (1988); 
Osama M.A.G., Behavior of the Transition Zone in the Nile Delta Aquifer under Different Pumping Schemes, (2002); 
Sufi A.B., Latif M., Skogerboe G.V., Simulating skimming well techniques for sustainable exploitation of groundwater, Irrig. Drain. Syst., 12, pp. 203-226, (1998); 
Voss C.I., SUTRA. a Finite Element Simulation Model for Saturated-unsaturated Fluid Density Dependent Groundwater Flow with Energy Transport or Chemically Reactive Single Species Transport, (1984); 
Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage-1 Project: Mid-term Review, (1993); 
Zheng C., MT3D: A Modular Three-dimensional Transport Model. S.S, (1990)#FRF#
