#ITI#Comparative analysis of performance criteria in irrigation schemes: A case study of Gediz river basin in Turkey#FTI#
#IRE#This paper argues about some performance criteria in irrigation schemes according to the situation of before and after irrigation management transfer in Turkey. Irrigation management transfer is defined as the transfer of authority and responsibility to manage irrigation systems from government agencies to water users organizations. Irrigation management transfer is a reform which has been strongly supported by Turkey's government as they realize greater participation of farmers in the management of irrigation systems. This is a monitoring and evaluation study which are the methods for assessing the performance of interventions, in this case the transfer of irrigation management from government to users. Many positive effects have been realized by the transfer process of irrigation management in Turkey. Initial results of the transfer included a doubling of irrigation fee collection rates and a shifting of operation and maintenance expenditures from the public to the users, an accumulation of reserves in some irrigation associations for future capital purchases, a reduced wage for operation and maintenance personnel, and indications of expansions of irrigated area in some transferred schemes. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Irrigation; Management; Participatory; Performance criteria; Water User Association#FPC#
#IRF#Beyribey M., Devlet Sulama Şebekelerinde Sistem Performansinin Deǧerlendirilmesi, (1997); 
Bos M.G., Murray-Rust D.H., Merrey D.J., Johnson H.G., Snellen W.B., Methodologies for assessing performance of irrigation and drainage management, Irrig. Drainage Syst., 7, pp. 231-261, (1994); 
Guislain P., The Privatization Challenge: A Strategic, Legal, and Institutional Analysis of International Experience, (1997); 
Johnson III S.H., Management Transfer in Mexico: A Strategy to Achieve Irrigation District Sustainability, (1997); 
Klozen H.W., Restrepo C., Assessing Irrigation Performance with Comparative Indicators: The Case of the Alto RioLerma Irrigation District, Mexico, (1998); 
Murray-Rust D.H., Svendsen M., Performance of locally managed irrigation in Turkey: Gediz case study, Irrig. Drainage Syst., 15, pp. 373-388, (2001); 
Rao P.S., Review of Selected Literature on Indicators of Irrigation Performance, (1993); 
Samad M., Vermillion D., Assessment of Participatory Management of Irrigation Schemes in Sri Lanka: Partial Reforms, Partial Benefits, (1999); 
Svendsen M., Nott G., Irrigation Management Transfer in Turkey: Process and Outcomes. EDI Participatory Irrigation Management Case Studies Series, (1999); 
Vermillion D.L., Impacts of Irrigation Management Transfer: A Review of the Evidence. IIMI Research Report 11, (1997); 
Vermillion D.L., Guide to Monitoring and Evaluation of Irrigation Management Transfer, (2000); 
Yercan M., Management turning-over and participatory management of irrigation schemes: A case study of the Gediz river basin in Turkey, J. Agric. Water Manage., 6263, pp. 205-214, (2003)#FRF#
