#ITI#Groundwater resources and management for paddy field irrigation and associated environmental problems in an alluvial coastal lowland plain#FTI#
#IRE#Groundwater is an important resource for water use in the alluvial coastal lowland plain. In the Shiroishi lowland plain, southwestern Kyushu Island of Japan, land subsidence and salinity intrusion due to intense withdrawals of groundwater have become the main environmental issues for public concern. In this study, an integrated surface and groundwater model was established and applied to the Shiroishi site to simulate groundwater flow hydraulics, aquifer compaction and solute transport in the alluvial lowland plain. Moreover, a groundwater optimization model was also formulated to search for an optimal safe yield of groundwater extraction without violating salinity intrusion and other constraints. The simulated results show that groundwater levels in the aquifer greatly vary in response to varying climatic and pumping conditions. Consequently, land subsidence has rapidly occurred throughout the area with the central prone in Shiroishi basin. As a result of pumping and land subsidence, seawater has been intruded along the coast. In case of relative sea level rise, seawater intrusion appears to extend much farther in land from the coast. From the viewpoint of agricultural water management, pumping for irrigation with an optimal pumping amount that is a new finding from the optimization model will sustain groundwater quality in the study area. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Coastal lowland aquifer; Groundwater over withdrawal; Integrated surface and groundwater model; Land subsidence; Optimal groundwater extraction; Optimization model; Relative seawater level rise; Salinity encroachment#FPC#
#IRF#Don N.C., Araki H., Yamanishi H., Koga K., Hydraulics of groundwater flow and mechanical properties affecting aquifer system compression in Shiroishi, Saga plain, Lowland Technol. Int., 5, 2, pp. 47-56, (2003); 
Goldberg E.D., Chemistry-the oceans as a chemical system, Composition of a Sea Water, Comparative and Descriptive Oceanography of the Seas, 2, (1963); 
Larson J.K., Basagaoglu H., Marino M.A., Prediction of optimal safe groundwater yield and land subsidence in the Los Banos-Kettleman City area, California, using a calibrated numberical simulation model, J. Hydrol., 242, pp. 79-102, (2001); 
Leake S.A., Prudic D.E., Documentation of a computer program to simulate aquifer-system compaction using the modular finite-difference groundwater flow model, USGS Techniques of Water Resources Investigation, Book 6, (1991); 
McDonald M.G., Harbaugh A.W., A modular three-dimensional finite difference groundwater flow model, US Geological Survey Techniques of Water Resources Investigations, (1988); 
Miura N., Taesiri Y., Sakai A., Land subsidence and its influence to geotechnical aspect in Saga plain, Proceedings of the International Symposium on Shallow Sea and Lowland, (1988); 
Sakai A., Land subsidence due to seasonal pumping of groundwater in Saga plain, Japan, Lowland Technol. Int., 3, 1, pp. 24-39, (2001); 
Simmons C.T., Narayan K.A., Wooding R.A., On a test case for density-dependent groundwater flow and solute transport models: the salt lake problem, Water Resour. Res., 35, 12, pp. 3607-3620, (1999); 
Tanaka S., Optimum pumping volume of groundwater in Saga and Shiroishi areas, Proceedings of the International Seminar on Geotechnical and water Problems in Lowland, (1990); 
Terzaghi K., Principles of soil mechanics: IV settlement and consolidation of clay, Engineering News Record, (1925); 
Wilson A.M., Gorelick S., The effect of pulsed pumping on land subsidence in the Santa Clara valley, California, J. Hydrol., 174, pp. 375-396, (1996)#FRF#
