#ITI#Evaluation of a hydrographic technique to measure on-farm water storage volumes#FTI#
#IRE#Digital terrain models of on-farm water storages are required to assist in accurately measuring the on-farm water balance, and water use efficiency components including storage capacity, inflow, seepage, evaporation and discharge volumes. A hydrographic surveying system combining a high-precision global positioning system (GPS) and a low-cost depth sounder was developed to facilitate the creation of a digital terrain model. The system was validated by comparing the hydrographic terrain model and volume measurements against both a traditional real time kinematic (RTK) land based survey and independent lead line depth measurements. Flat-bottomed storage volumes were measured with errors of less than 1% using the hydrographic survey technique. A major proportion of the error in small storages was found to be associated with the ability to accurately identify the inflection point between the banks and floor of the storage. However, for larger storages, errors were primarily related to density of sampling points within the storage floor area. Recommendations are provided regarding the appropriate measurement procedures, including sampling point density, for a range of storage sizes. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Dam; Efficiency; Farm; GPS; Irrigation; Survey#FPC#
#IRF#Mapping Technology Review Final Report: Early Implementation of Nearshore Ecosystem Database Project, (1999); 
Clark D., Plane and Geodetic Surveying, (1972); 
Collier P., Brown N., Champion T., A high accuracy GPS survey of the main runway at Melbourne Airport, Proceedings of Spatial Knowledge Without Boundaries Conference, (2003); 
Cressie N.A.C., Statistics for Spatial Data, (1991); 
Gardner J.V., Dartnell P., Gibbons H., MacMillan D., Exposing the Sea Floor: High-Resolution Multibeam Mapping Along the US Pacific Coast, US Geological Survey Fact Sheet 013-00, (2000); 
Gibbings P.D., Raine S.R., Configuration of a GPS and digital depth sounder for hydrographic measurements of on-farm water storages, Spatial Sci. (Queensland), 6, pp. 33-36, (2004); 
Hearn B., Benchmarking Water Use on Farm: If You Don't Measure It, You Can't Manage It, (1998); 
Hughes B.V., Taube C.M., Mapping Lakes with Echo Sounders - Manual of Fisheries Survey Methods II, (2000); 
Ingham A.E., Abbott V.J., Hydrography for the Surveyor and Engineer, (1992); 
Kielland P., Hagglund J., The use of DGPS to measure the heave motion of hydrographic survey vessels, Int. Hydrographic Rev. Monaco, 72, 1, pp. 83-99, (1995); 
Nazaretian S., How Our Water Went 'Missing, Landmark, 14, pp. 8-10, (2003); 
O'Connell V., Surveying in Paradise, Position Mag. (Aust. Mag. Surveying, Mapping & Geoinformation), 7, (2003); 
Raine S.R., Factors influencing irrigation performance and water use efficiency, Research, Development and Extension in Irrigation and Water Use Efficiency, (1999); 
Scarfe B., Measuring Water Level Corrections (WLC) Using RTK GPS, Hydrographic J., 104, pp. 17-23, (2002)#FRF#
