#ITI#Positive externalities and water service management in rice-based irrigation systems of the humid tropics#FTI#
#IRE#The principles and practices of service oriented management are considered for rice-based systems of the humid tropics. It is shown that the classical service oriented approach, aimed at improving irrigation management performance, faces many obstacles in this environment. These are linked to important externalities generated by irrigation due to the permanent presence of water throughout the gross command area. The isolation of the service to specific users (plots and/or farmers) is prevented by surface and subsurface lateral transfers of water. Accordingly, this makes it difficult to apply the fundamental "user-payer" principle. In a case study from Sri Lanka, crop water consumption amounted to only 23% of the net water available within the scheme (irrigation plus rainfall); while other uses of water (externalities) are estimated at 61% of the same value. The remaining fraction of 16% is accounted for by real losses. The externalities are mostly of positive benefit and are mainly generated by evapotranspiration of perennial non-crop vegetation (trees or grass) of high value to the local community. Water bodies within the scheme (tanks and canals) also account for a significant share of water consumption through direct evaporation; this use can be considered as a positive externality (fisheries, domestic supply). With diverse and important externalities it is difficult to apply a service oriented management strategy, linking specific services with charging procedures for each user within the gross command area. This study considers, as an alternative, the idea of the entire community living within the gross command area as the user or beneficiary of water management practices. The principle of charging the population as a whole is therefore examined as a possible option. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.#FRE#
#IPC#Externality; Imgation system; Rice; Service management#FPC#
#IRF#Abernethy C.L., Irrigation Water Management at Kaudulla, Sri Lanka. A Review of Measurements Made, 1978-1983 and a Proposal for New Management Methods, (1985); 
Anukularmphai A., Comments and discussion on the country institutional context, Proceedings of the Regional Consultation Workshop on Towards Effective Water Policy in the Asian and Pacific Region, (1996); 
Arriens W.L., Bird J., Berkoff J., Mosley P., Proceedings of the Regional Consultation Workshop on Towards Effective Water Policy in the Asian and Pacific Region, (1996); 
Bakker M., Barker R., Meinzen-Dick R., Konradsen F., Multiple Uses of Water in Irrigated Areas: A Case Study from Sri Lanka, (1999); 
Burns R.E., Irrigated rice culture in monsoon Asia: The search for an effective water control technology, World Dev, 21, 5, pp. 771-789, (1993); 
Dinar A., Subramanian A., Water Pricing Experiences: An International Perspective, (1997); 
George R.J., Nulsen R.A., Ferdowsian R., Raper G.P., Interactions between trees and groundwater in recharge and discharge areas: A survey of western Australian sites, Agric. Water Manage., 39, 2-3, pp. 91-113, (1999); 
Hofwegen P.J.M., Malano H.M., Hydraulic infrastructure under decentralized and privatized irrigation system management, Deregulation, Decentralization and Privatisation in Irrigation: State Functions Move to the Free Market, pp. 188-216, (1997); 
Scheduling of irrigation delivery, Proceedings of the Third International ITIS Meeting Held in Alor Setar, (1996); 
MacDicken K.G., Vergara N.T., Introduction to agroforestry, Agroforestry: Classification and Management, (1990); 
Matsuno Y., Irrigation and drainage water quality and impacts of human activities on the aquatic environment in a southeastern part of Sri Lanka, Collaborative Research on the Improvement of Irrigation Operation and Management (Final Report), pp. 3-18, (1999); 
Matsuno Y., Konradsen F., Tasumi M., Vand Der Hoek W., Amerasinghe F.P., Amerasinghe P.H., Control of malaria mosquito breeding through irrigation water management, Water Resour. Dev., 15, 1-2, pp. 93-105, (1999); 
Merrey D.J., Institutional Design Principles for Accountability in Large Irrigation Systems, (1996); 
Molden D.J., Sakthivadivel R., Habib Z., Basin water use, conservation and productivity: Examples from South Asia, Proceedings of the 17th Congress on Irrigation and Drainage, 1 A, pp. 205-225, (1999); 
Mutuwatte L.P., Konradsen F., Renault D., Sharma S.K., Gulati O.T., Kumara W.A.U., Water-Related Environmental Factors and Malaria Transmission in Mahi Kadana, (1997); 
Nair P.K.R., Ecological spread of major agroforestry systems, Agroforestry Systems in the Tropics, pp. 62-84, (1989); 
Nair P.K.R., Classification of agroforetsry systems, Agroforestry: Classification and Management, (1990); 
Ostrom E., Crafting Institutions for Self-Governing Irrigation Systems, (1992); 
Pereira H.C., Policy and Practice in the Management of Tropical Watersheds, (1989); 
Perry C.J., The IIMI Water Balance Framework: A Model for Project Level Analysis, (1996); 
Perry C.J., Rock M., Seckler D., Water as an Economic Good: A Solution or a Problem?, (1997); 
Perry C.J., Charging for Irrigation Water: The Issues and Options, with a Case Study from Iran, (2001); 
Persley G.J., Replanting the Tree of Life: Towards an International Agenda for Coconut Palm Research, (1992); 
Renault D., Makin I., Modernization of Irrigation Systems Operation: A Disaggregated Approach of the Demand, (1999); 
Renault D., Hemakumara M.H., Molden D.W., Importance of water consumption by perennial vegetation in irrigated areas of the humid tropics: Evidence from Sri Lanka, Agric. Water Manage., 46, 3, pp. 215-230, (2001); 
Renwick M.E., Vg Water in Irrigated Agriculture and Reservoir Fisheries: A Multiple-Use Irrigation System in Sri Lanka, (2001); 
Rice E.B., Paddy Irrigation and Water Management in Southeast Asia, (1997); 
Salam A., Sreekumar D., Kerala homegardens: A traditional agroforestry system from India, Agrofor. Today, 3, 2, (1991); 
Samad M., Vermillion D., Assessment of Participatory Management of Irrigation Schemes in Sri Lanka: Partial Reforms, Partial Benefits, (1999); 
Seckler D., The New Era of Water Resources Management: From 'Dry' to 'Rice-Based' Water Savings, (1996); 
Tabuchi T., Yamaji E., Paddy fields and evaporation Basin in Australia, Paddy Fields in the World, (1995); 
Wickramasinghe A., Trees for sustainable survival, Proceedings of the 3rd Regional Workshop on Multipurpose Tree Species, pp. 144-170, (1992)#FRF#
