#ITI#Understanding and managing groundwater and salinity in a tropical conjunctive water use irrigation district#FTI#
#IRE#Agricultural production around the world is increasingly being constrained by hydrological factors-such as over-extraction of groundwater in some locations, rising water tables in others, and worsening groundwater quality in general. One such area is the Lower Burdekin irrigation area in northern tropical Australia, where rising watertable levels and increasing salinity concentrations within alluvial deposits are causing concern. The aim of this study was to improve understanding of the processes driving trends in groundwater quantity and quality in Mona Park, a conjunctive water use irrigation district in the Lower Burdekin. The analysis is intended to enable land and water managers to explore alternative policy and management practices to help support the reversal in current trends, and to improve water table conditions in terms of both water quantity and quality. Key lessons that are applicable to the development of new irrigation schemes in wet-dry tropical regions elsewhere in the world are emphasised. This study demonstrated that simple qualitative methods that link historical developments and observed climatic and hydrological trends can support development of a robust understanding of groundwater behaviour. The results showed that to minimise groundwater accessions in wet-dry tropical regions, a large soil water deficit should be maintained in the unsaturated zone prior to the onset of the wet season to buffer against potentially large wet season recharge events, and that this strategy should be implemented from when irrigation is first commenced. It is very clear that groundwater systems under or down gradient from irrigated areas need to be managed adaptively, such that: (1) timely decisions are made in response to changes in watertable level and groundwater quality; and (2) suitable mechanisms are in place to ensure farmers have the financial incentives and flexibility to respond in the short-term. The work also demonstrated that the establishment of good baseline data prior to irrigation development, and long-term analysis (>30 years) involving various combinations of wet and dry periods, are required in order to build a comprehensive understanding of potential groundwater behaviour and adaptive management needs. Crown Copyright © 2008.#FRE#
#IPC#Conjunctive water use; Groundwater; Gypsum; Irrigation; Lower Burdekin; Salinity#FPC#
#IRF#ANZECC, Australian and New Zealand Guidelines for Fresh and Marine Water Quality, (2000); 
Bethune M.G., Batey T.J., Impact on soil hydraulic properties resulting from irrigating saline-sodic soils with low salinity water, Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture, 42, pp. 273-279, (2002); 
Bristow K.L., Water and irrigation in Australia, Water and Sustainable Development, pp. 135-160, (2004); 
Credlin B.L., Water resources of the Burdekin Basin and their development, (1979); 
Day K., Loi J., Christianos N., Sodic soils: their characteristics and influence on the development of the Burdekin River Irrigation Area North Queensland, Australian Sodic Soils. Distribution, Properties and Management, pp. 57-64, (1995); 
Donnollan T.E., Understanding and Managing Burdekin (BRIA) soils, (1991); 
Isbell R.F., The Australian Soil Classification, (1996); 
Booker Tropical Soil Manual, A Handbook for Soil Survey and Agricultural Land Evaluation in the Tropics and Subtropics, (1984); 
McMahon G.A., Arunakumaren N.J., Bajracharya K., Hydrogeological conceptualisation of the Burdekin River Delta, Hydro 2000., Proceedings of the 3rd International Hydrology and Water Resources Symposium of the Institution of Engineers, (2000); 
Narayan K., Schleeberger C., Bristow K.L., Modeling seawater intrusion in the Burdekin Delta aquifer, North Queensland, Australia, Agricultural Water Management, 89, pp. 217-228, (2007); 
Nelson P.N., Ham G.J., Exploring the response of sugar cane to sodic and saline conditions through natural variation in the field, Field Crops Research, 66, pp. 245-255, (2000); 
Nelson P.N., Ham G.J., Kingston G., Burgess D., Wood A., Christianos N., Hardy S., Wilson P., Lawer A., Diagnosis and Management of Sodic Soils under Sugarcane., (2001); 
O'Choudhary O.P., Josan A.S., Bajwa M.S., Kapur M.L., Effect of sustained sodic and saline-sodic irrigation and application of gypsum and farmyard manure on yield and quality of sugarcane under semi-arid conditions, Field Crops Research, 87, pp. 103-116, (2004); 
O'Shea J.A., Replenishment of underground water supplies-Burdekin Delta, Queensland, Civil Engineering Transactions, I.E. Australia, CE9, 1, pp. 117-126, (1967); 
Rengasamy P., Olsson K.A., Sodicity and soil structure, Australian Journal of Soil Research, 29, pp. 935-952, (1991); 
Shaw R., Predicted deep drainage loss under dryland and irrigation managements for Burdekin soils. In Soils of the Burdekin River Irrigation Area, Workshop Proceedings Ayr, (1988); 
Shaw R.J., Thorburn P.J., McShane T.J., Maltby J.E., The effectiveness of drainage in a region of variable aquifer hydraulic conductivity in the Lower Burdekin region, North Queensland, Proceedings of the Rural Drainage in Northern Australia, pp. 129-142, (1982); 
Shaw R.J., Eldershaw V.J., Thompson W.P., Smith G.D., Changes in Hydrology and Salinity under irrigation agriculture on the fort site, Lower Burdekin Right Bank North Queensland. Bulletin QB84004, (1984); 
Shaw R.J., Coughlin K.J., Bell L.C., Root zone sodicity, Sodic Soils. Distribution, Properties, Management and Environmental Consequences, pp. 95-106, (1988); 
Slavich P.G., Petterson G.H., Griffin D., The effect of gypsum on deep drainage of clay soils used for rice, Australian Sodic Soils. Distribution, Properties and Management, pp. 205-210, (1995); 
Slavich P.G., Petterson G.H., Griffin D., Effects of irrigation water salinity and sodicity on infiltration and lucerne growth over a shallow watertable, Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture, 42, pp. 281-290, (2002); 
Smith R.J., Raine S.R., Minkevich J., Irrigation application efficiency and deep drainage potential under surface irrigated cotton, Agricultural Water Management, 71, pp. 117-130, (2005); 
Surapaneni A., Olsson K.A., Burrow D.P., Beecher H.G., Ham G.J., Stevens R.M., Hulugalle N.R., McKenzie D.C., Rengasamy P., Tatura sodicity conference: knowledge gaps in sodicity research for major agricultural industries, Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture, 42, pp. 379-387, (2002)#FRF#
