#ITI#Asssesing the effectiveness and impact of agricultural water management interventions: the case of small reservoirs in northern Ghana#FTI#
#IRE#Agricultural water management, particularly management of multi-purpose small reservoirs (SRs) in drier savanna areas of the northern Ghana, is being promoted as a key solution to improve agricultural production, enhance food security and livelihoods of smallholder farm households. However, little empirical evidence exist on how effective these small water infrastructures are in terms of delivering multiple benefits and their impact on the livelihood of smallholder farmers. This study assessed the effectiveness and impact of the small reservoirs on smallholder vegetable farmers in northern Ghana. A participatory rating method using a 5-point Likert-scale was used to assess the effectiveness of SRs in delivering multiple livelihood benefits and an endogenous switching regression model was applied to assess the SRs’ impact using a primary data collected from 328 randomly sampled vegetable farmers. Results from the Likert scale analysis show that most of the SRs are either dysfunctional or underutilized and not effective in delivering multiple benefits. Results from the endogenous switching regression model show that there is only about 3% increase in the income of vegetable farmers participating in irrigated vegetable production using SRs against the counterfactual situation but this change is insignificant statistically. The current low level effectiveness and impact of SRs could be enhanced by improving their management, for example, through the provision of incentive mechanisms such as subsidies to the private sector involvement in rehabilitation, management and irrigation service provision and strengthening the capacity of existing water users associations. Furthermore, small reserviors should be recognized not only as water sources for small scale irrigation but also as providers of multiple livelihood benefits to local communities and consequently should attract due attention in public resource allocation in their rehabilitation and management/institutional capacity building. © 2018 Elsevier B.V.#FRE#
#IPC#Benefits; Effectiveness; Multiple; Small reservoirs; Smallholder irrigators; Vegetable production#FPC#
#IRF#Abdulai A., Huffman W., The adoption and impact of soil and water conservation technology: an endogenous switching regression application, Land Econ., 90, 1, pp. 26-43, (2014); 
Balana B., Three Lessons from Ghana on Women's Access to Land and Water. Policy Brief, (2016); 
Balana B., Appoh R., Addy P., Odonkor E., Ashitei G., Fonta W.M., Sanfo S., Bossa A.Y., Dembele K., Nimoh F., Ecosystem Services and Gender-Differentiated Adoption Analysis (Selected AWM & RRR Solutions). Project Technical Report, (2016); 
Barron J., Noel S., Malesu M., Oduor A., Shone G., Rockstrom J., Agricultural Water Management in Smallholder Farming Systems: The Value of Soft Components in Mesoscale Interventions. Technical Project Report, (2008); 
Birner R., Can decentralization and community-based development reduce corruption in natural resource management? Insights from irrigation in Ghana and forestry in Indonesia, International Anti-Corruption Conference, Athens, Greece, October 30 – November 2, 2008, (2008); 
Di Falco S., Veronesi M., How can African agriculture adapt to climate change? A counterfactual analysis from Ethiopia, Land Econ., 89, pp. 743-766, (2013); 
Evans A.E.V., Giordano M., Clayton T., Investing in agricultural water management to benefit smallholder farmers in Ghana, AgWater Solutions Project Country Synthesis Report, (2012); 
FAO, Mapping and Assessing the Potential for Investments in Agricultural Water Management: Ghana. Country Investment Brief. FAO Water for AgWater Solutions Project, (2012); 
FAO, Aquastat, (2016); 
GreenFacts, Facts on Health and the Environment: Ecosystem Services, (2001); 
Johnston R., McCartney M., Inventory of Water Storage Types in the Blue Nile and Volta River Basins, (2010); 
Liebe J., Van De Giesen N., Andreini M., Estimation of small reservoir storage capacities in a semi-arid environment: a case study in the Upper East Region of Ghana, Phys. Chem. Earth Parts A/B/C, 30, 6, pp. 448-454, (2005); 
Lokshin M., Sajaia Z., Maximum likelihood estimation of endogenous switching regression models, Stata J., 4, pp. 282-289, (2004); 
McCartney M., Rebelo L.-M., Xenarios S., Smakhtin V., Agricultural Water Storage in an Era of Climate Change: Assessing Need and Effectiveness in Africa. IWMI Research Report No. 152., (2013); 
Mikhail M., Stein C., Kongo V., Barron J., Opportunities for agricultural Water management interventions in the Mwembeshi Watershed in Zambia, A Report Submitted to Stockholm Environmental Institute, Sweden, (2011); 
MOFA, 2014 Agric Sector Annual Progress Report, (2014); 
Molden D.E., Water for Food, Water for Life: A Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture, (2007); 
Namara, Irrigation Development in Ghana: Past Experiences, Emerging Opportunities, and Future Directions. Accra, Ghana: IWMI AgWater Solutions Project Case Study Report, (2010); 
Namara R.E., Horowitz L., Nyamadi B., Barry B., Irrigation development in Ghana: past experiences, emerging opportunities, and future directions, Ghana Strategy Support Program (GSSP) Working Paper No. 0027, (2011); 
Namara R.E., Hope L., OwusuSarpong E., De Fraiture C., Owusu D., The adoption patterns and constraints pertaining to small-scale water lifting technologies in Ghana, Agric. Water Manage., 131, pp. 194-203, (2014); 
Payen J., Faures J.-M., Vallee D., Small Reservoirs and Water Storage for Smallholder Farming: The Case for a New Approach. IWMI AgWater Solutions: Technical Report, (2012); 
Timler C., Michalscheck M., Klapwijk C., Mashingaidze N., Ollenburger M., Falconnier G., Kuivanen K., Descheemaeker K., Groot J., Characterization of Farming Systems in Africa RISING Intervention Sites in Malawi, Tanzania, Ghana and Mali. Technical Report, (2014); 
van de Giesen N., Kunstmann H., Jung G., Liebe J., Andreini M., Vlek P.L.G., The GLOWA Volta Project: Center for Development Research, (2002); 
Venot J.P., Krishnan J., Discursive framing: debates over small reservoirs in the rural south, Water Alternat., 4, 3, pp. 316-324, (2011)#FRF#
